We did not have to stand up to answer the teacher’s question. I was baffled when I saw my new classmate answer the teacher while slacking in their desks. I never really fit in. Whether it be eighth grade or high school, I never really found myself completely alike my friends. Some topic would always emerge in our conversations, that would put me out of the discussion group. Whether it be knowledge about politics, or sharing funny anecdotes, I would be out of the circle. It was partly because when I came to the U.S. in 2014, I did not know the teen culture of America. It would take me several days in middle school to learn that I did not have to get up from my seat to answer the teacher. Weeks to learn the cafeteria routine, sitting at respective tables with your homeroom class, getting in lines for food, chocolate milk cartons, and mozzarella cheese sticks. It was so much different from India where we were just let loose in the lunch break to roam around the building, be wherever we wanted. It was both restrictive and freeing at the same time. 
My father got a transfer here from his company, for about three to four years. As a result, I came to U.S. on a visa. My middle school friends would bombard me with questions about my home country, the language I spoke, and why I was speaking in an Indian accent. It took me months to change to an American accent, during which I would be ridiculed daily in some light manner or other, with mimicry or explicit indication, for my Indian accent. They would often confuse my religion ‘Hindu’, and my native language ‘Hindi’ for one another. It all changed when I came to Bronx Science.
In high school, my ease for math and science was not taken to be weird. My teachers were proud of me, my parents even more. Bronx Science gave me what I really needed, a home. It was a haven for learning, nourishing young curious minds to bloom. The more I delved into my science classes, the more I wanted to learn, the more knowledge I wanted. I remember in sophomore year, AP Chemistry, I was really intrigued by the molecular bonding of carbon atoms to form molecules of diamond. I raised a question regarding the structural stability of the carbon atoms to bond in this way, to which my teacher responded, “Find the answer for extra credit”. To this, the whole class turned towards me and asked to repeat my questions for they wanted to do the extra credit too. I did the research too, but I did not submit it for extra credit. I do not want my curiosity to have a price on my transcript. It was moments like these that defined me as the person I am today. It was all going well. I mixed with my friends, who shared similar passions with me. I was almost indistinguishable from my friends except that I was from India, not a citizen. This small detail grew to be defining in my senior year.
When looking for colleges, all of my friends did not have to worry about the money in it. They were going to get financial aid. Whereas I had to look for multiple other parameters- which college was I interested in, which one was affordable, which one is affordable for an international student. My father told me that if the fee would be too high, I would have to resort to going back to India for college with my family. If I was lucky enough, I would get to stay here for college. So when applying to colleges, I have to explain my very unusual circumstance to them-: I am originally from India. I am here in U.S. on visa and considered an international student but I have attended all four years of a public high school in New York City. Meanwhile I was helping my father deal with the stress of me being able to attend college her, and consoling my friends at high school dealing with stress over college. No one asked me if I was going under any stress. And I did not complain. I played the wise one and absorbed all my stress. I released it in badminton team, or in a physics test, some miraculous and helpful ways  I deal with stress. 
I am from a middle class family. If I can attend college with the my father’s income going towards the college fee, and my brother’s private high school tuition fee next year when they return to India, it will truly be a dream come true. With a college education, I can advance my interests in computer science and physics, and one day hopefully, work at NASA, where I hope to solve the world’s energy problems with advanced space research. Some of my friends say I dream too big to which I reply,  “one can never dream too big”.