EXPLORING ANTEBELLUM AMERICA 1820-1860 -:
BY
WILLIAM GOLDSMITH

Ramansh Sharma, Period 3, Term Research Paper


                                         December 18, 1835
It has been twelve days since my mother has passed away. Both my parents dead, and my cotton farm does not bear any good amount of harvest. Last night, my wife, being extremely religious and deeply influenced by the second Great Awakening like me, advised me to explore the country outside of our hometown Carlton, Georgia, so that I can experience what is to be an American and possibly find a new mode of living for my family. She says that the trip will help me cut down on my arrogance that I have. I would have argued against this suggestion, but she said that God himself had commanded her in her dream last night to tell me this, so I knew I had to do it. I did not want to leave my wife alone with the our male slave we had at home. But I was convinced when Sally insisted that she will be safe. I packed my bag with some food Sally packed for me, money, and few shirts and pants, and dressed myself with a white linen shirt, black pants and shoes, and my overcoat. I fetched my hat, kissed Sally goodbye,  and left the house to explore America. I am also keeping this diary so as to record my periodic interactions and reflecting on them.
I first decided to travel to Miami, Florida to learn more about how to tame slaves since mine has been giving me some trouble lately, so I bought a railroad ticket for that. The railroad system  in the South at this time was undercapitalized. The South invested about $6,000 less per mile in railroad development than the rest of the nation [1]. Still, it was shameful that the price of the ticket was so high. Not having the money to buy the expensive ticket, whose price I prefer not to mention, I pleaded an army officer standing nearby on the station to kindly allow me to travel on the army baggage train about to leave. I asked him so, “Please Sir, I beg you to let me travel with you on this train. I don’t have a lot of money, and I must get to Florida. All I have to offer you is this meatloaf my wife packed for me for my journey”. The officer must have been in good mood for he let me on without taking any of my food or money. I boarded one of the center cars of the train, and found the different cabins filled with sacks of cotton all around me. I threw my bag on the floor, settled on a pile of cotton sacks in one of the corners in the cabin and slept away as the sun went down.
                          February 26, 1836
A lot has happened since I last wrote in this diary. After I boarded the train to Florida from Georgia, the same night, a group of Seminole Indian tribe led by their leader Osceola ambushed our army baggage train for food and ammunitions [2]. By daybreak, they had tied our hands to our back and gagged our mouths. We had no choice but to follow these horrendous savages. While they were directing us into the woods, I noticed that all of these tribesmen were carrying guns and primitive spears. I would have asked them some questions on my mind like why are they doing this or where are they taking us, but alas! these animals could not speak english. Suddenly I was taken aback as one of the military officers, the very one that let me on the train, tried to escape. He unfortunately only ran about twenty feet before being impaled on the back of his neck by one Indian. They threw his body away like garbage and moved on. This event changed my perspective on Indians completely. I thought they were like apes and monkeys who had no sense of violence, let alone killing people with such harsh ways. Now I see their true colors. All I could do was keep my voice down so as to not being attention to me. It was now that I regret not embracing my wife enough when I left. I now see that my life, a thin thread joining my consciousness and the mortal world, could be severed with such ease by these barbarous Indians. When we reached their hideout, I saw a young, energetic, man who was wrestling [3] with other Indians around him in an arena. As he was exiting the arena wearing a hunting shirt with long sleeves that came down to his knees [4], we were brought near him and made to get on our knees. The Indians who captured us bowed in respect to him and left us there. He watched us for a few minutes and left too. Later on that night, our hands were untied and we were given food and water. I ate the meat quickly and drank some water, and washed my hands and face with the rest. I saw the leader nearby and approached him. He was my only chance of escaping this hell. As I came forward, he turned towards me, put his hand on his chest, and said one word, “Osceola”. I bowed in respect and introduced myself. To my surprise, he understood everything. I knew I had to be calm and not let my anger on these people get me slaughtered, so I asked Osceola with my best tone why he was doing all this to us. He replied in an exasperated tone, “Dear friend, this is a message for your government who wants us to migrate west, but we don’t want to” he replied 
“The white man says I shall go, and he will send people to make me go; but I have a rifle, and I have some powder and some lead. I say, we must not leave our homes and lands. If any of our people want to go west we won’t let them; and I tell them they are our enemies, and we will treat them so, for the Great Spirit will protect us [5] ”. 
After this conversation, we were told to sleep in some beds made from animal hides and skins. They also gave me back my diary for which I thanked them. After a few days of rest, I accounted my whole experience with the Indians in here. They have told me that they will let me go with respect and all my belongings very soon as I am not affiliated with the army they caught me with. Apart from their brutal savagery and wilderness, the Seminoles are also friendly to their loved ones. They sing in groups, dance around bonfires at nights, drink from the same cups, and fight beside each other.
                                                                                                  May 4, 1838
        After spending a few more months with the Seminoles, Osceola decided it was time for me to leave. His men were kind enough to escort me to the nearby train station. There, I bought a pack of tickets that would allow me to take several trains to reach North Carolina, far away from Indian tribes. I boarded an afternoon train from Georgia and started my journey. As the train made stops along the way, I used to stop at different places along and stay in guest houses to learn more about the Southern way of living. With the war looming over our heads, I thought it might be a good idea to know about the reasons of it. What I could say now after talking to different people is that the prime reason of the war is that the Northern states want to contain the spread of slavery whereas the Southern states want to continue spreading slavery into newly acquired territories by the country. I, as a slave owner myself, can say that people who have slaves should be allowed to retain them as they own them as legal properties. However, I currently don’t have an opinion on the expansion of slavery. Anyway, I have been lately residing in Raleigh, North Carolina for the past year and a half, and I have been meeting some famous people lately. Yesterday morning, I visited the market to buy fruits and vegetables for the week. I was just leaving a shop when a nicely decorated and lavish wagon passed by me. It was a sight of pure beauty. The horse was as white as milk, with purple drapes over and the wagon was covered in bright red fabric. I caught a glimpse of the man inside but I could not recognize him. My curiosity led me to follow the wagon and luckily it was not going to fast. As it made a stop in front of a building that looked like a town hall, the man sitting inside slowly came out. I immediately went to him and introduced myself and I came to know that he was Noah Webster. I happen to know about some of his achievements such as his famous American dictionary, and his works on etymology. Although, I have heard rumors that Webster’s ten year work on tracing the history of english words was misguided because Webster was turned religiously blind after reading the Bible too literally [6]. His dismissive attitude towards German philologists seem to be responsible for his failure as an etymologist [7]. As I was trying to start a conversation with him, I happen to have an idea to start a local magazine after I was done with this trip. It would definitely help me raise some money for my family back at home. Anyway, for that idea I need to have an interview with Webster. Luckily I took out the small notebook and pen I was carrying, and without any delay, I politely asked him, “Sir, would you be so kind to give this poor man a small piece of your wisdom? Not too long. I just have a few questions”. Surprisingly, he invited me in the building. We headed towards a glass table with polished wooden chairs. As we settled down, I started by asking, “Mr. Webster, I have lately heard that your deep religiosity is a result of you being deeply affected by the second Great Awakening and that you believe that Adam and Eve were endowed with the faculty of language by God and that from that language has descended every single human language that has come into existence [8] ”. To this, he cleverly replied, “Where’s the question in that”. After that the extremely curious audience around us broke into a laugh which was stopped by Webster raising his hand. I realized I should be more careful with this man so I rephrased by question, “Sorry sir, I meant to ask is all that true about you and if so why do you think so? ”. This time he replied with the answer, “The strong affinity of the languages of Asia and Europe, furnished a strong argument in favor of the scriptural doctrine, that all nations have descended from a single pair, Adam and Eve. [9] ”. I was so amazed by this thoughtful response that I just let my emotions speak for me, “Sir, I am honestly deeply influenced by your opinion. I am speechless to your explanation. Thank you very much, I hope you have a wonderful day ahead”. Now I see how deeply one can be affected from spiritual attachment to God. What I heard from Webster shows that all languages have risen from the same ancestor. Might this also mean that all races have risen from the same ancestor too? I might have asked his opinion on it but the man was in a hurry and had to leave. If only I could be one of those lucky souls to unite with the Almighty, I might get enlightened too. With this I returned to my place and wondered which other famous people could I meet on this trip.
                                                                                        March 16, 1844
        After staying for about six years in North Carolina, I wanted to move more into the North and see how people are different over there. I decided this morning to move to Trenton, New Jersey. As I prepared to venture into the foreign lands, I went over my belongings: a few shirts, four pants, two black coats, a hat, some small utensils, a watch, and some bread. I was pretty impressed with my new haircut I got this morning. I had a small fight with the wagon owner that took me to the train station because he was charging me more than usual, probably because of the extra weight I was carrying. I bought a ticket for the first class cars in my train. I wonder how excited Sally would have looked knowing her husband has made enough money to afford a first class ticket. I personally chose it because the first class cabins have larger windows, which I like seeing through. Sitting on my leather seat, I saw this man sitting in front of me holding a paper in one hand, a pen in the other, with his head so leaned on the window that it was hard to see his full face. I cleared my throat to get his attention. No response. I cleared it louder this time and some other passengers turned their eyes toward me including the man in front of me. He turned around and I got to see his face. This person would stand about five feet, seven inches, had an attractive open face with a broad forehead, a strong Roman nose, and a slightly receding chin covered with a beard [10]. He had a full head of fine light brown hair and deep piercing blue-gray eyes [11]. He strided with an unusual energy [12]. He opened his mouth and said, “Greetings there fellow passenger. Do you want to ask or tell me something ?”. He seemed like a nice gentleman so I introduced myself to him. As he introduced himself to me, I came to know he was Henry David Thoreau, the famous poet who writes about nature. I wondered though, how could one stare outside a train while sitting in the lavish and exotic first class cabins. I asked Thoreau, “Sir, I could not help but notice that you were so occupied with staring outside the train window while sitting in a first class cabin. How could one stare at the wilderness of the outside world while sitting right in man made heaven?”. To this, the philosopher replied, “Dear friend, you are clearly misguided in your thoughts. This metal automaton which you call heaven from inside is a mere nuisance to the people outside.”, he sighed and continued in the most angry tone, 
“What an infinite bustle! I am awakened almost every night by the panting of the locomotive. It interrupts my dreams. There is no sabbath. It would be glorious to see mankind at leisure for once. It is nothing but work, work, work. I cannot easily buy a blank book to write thoughts in; they are commonly ruled for dollars and cents….If a man is tossed out a window when an infant, or scared out of his wits by the Indians, it is regretted chiefly because he was thus incapacitated for business! I think there is nothing, not even crime, more opposed to poetry, to philosophy, ay to life itself, than this incessant business [13].”
I sworn to control my anger on this trip but this gentleman just went above the line. I replied in an equally angry tone, “Well, sorry to say that you do not like the advancements that humanity is making, but then why are you even travelling in a train ?”. The old man took a deep breath and calmly answered that he is deeply disturbed by the railroad and how it is affecting the whole Nation [14]. He also added, “Wages is a cunning device of the devil for the benefit of tender consciences who would retain all the advantages of the slave system without the expense, trouble, and odium of being slaveholders. [15]”. I immediately realized he was attacking the factory owners in the north. I have heard that factory owners in north are so brutal to their workers that they are paid very less, for long working hours, and are often abused. I see now from Thoreau’s answer that these rumors are true. Maybe he is right in saying that slavery is a lot like this factory hell. Christ! May not I get cursed to work in one of those factories! After I arrived in Trenton, I thanked Thoreau for his conversation with me and he thanked in return. After thinking for some while, I had some thoughts that might be considered crazy and moronic. Maybe, slavery is after all bad. Maybe, blacks are human beings with feelings. If they are in reality human beings, it’s a shame to the white race for carrying out such acts of brutality towards them. Maybe, this nation needs to change. If only everyone would listen to Thoreau for once, they would see, that slavery is like factory work, unethical.
                                                                                              June 28, 1846
        I have been growing my beard lately and observed that it is turning all white. This means that I am becoming the victim of the inevitability of age and that I am gathering more and more wisdom. This afternoon, as I was roaming the streets of Trenton, I decided to treat myself to a cup of coffee. I stopped by a café and ordered a coffee. As I waited for my drink, I saw this man sitting on the table to my left, with his hands in his hair, trying to write something down. He seemed as if he had been trying for hours, but could not decide if his work was good. I felt pity seeing a man like this. I went up to his table took off my hat and asked if I could sit in the seat in front of him. As he nodded yes and curiously studied my face, I kindly asked him, “Sir I could not help but notice that you seem quite stressed with what you are trying to write. May I help you in any way”. The man replied with a smile, “My name is John L’ O’Sullivan. I the chief writer and editor of the Democratic Review magazine. Lately, as you might have heard that Congress has given the federal order to annex the territory of Texas and are currently arguing about President Polk’s request to authority to give formal notice to Great Britain of the termination of the agreement under which the two nations had jointly occupied the Oregon country since 1818 [16]. Well, I support the annexation of these territories by our country, and by our superior race. I have written something here that I am not sure is appealing. Would you be so kind to listen me read it to you?”. I immediately realized he was the next famous person for my future magazine and I agreed to hear him out. O’Sullivan started reading his work,
“The great future of the modern world is the growth and power of the The Anglo-Saxon race. The race is not divided into nearly powerful parts, one of  which, in the position of great political power, occupies the British islands, and from there sways the commercial world. The other inhabits the continent of North America, and will soon absorb the whole one vast union, from whose bosom, the British islands must thereafter draw their supplies of food, and become measurably dependent for the elements of their power….The practical annexation of the manufacturing interests of England to the agricultural interests of the United States through free trade, again unites the Anglo-Saxon race in an indissoluble bond, and gives a new impulse to the prosperity of this glorious union. [17]”
I was amazed by this piece of pure wisdom. I must have been staring blankly at his face because O’Sullivan had to say my name twice to shake me out of my wonder. I now see that I am not the only one to think that the white race is superior to other races. But I also see that O’Sullivan’s ideas are in direct conflict with the ideas I inferred from Webster’s claim of all languages rising form the same ancestor and Thoreau’s comparison of slavery and factory work. I had so much on my mind that I thanked O’Sullivan and returned home. I probably should have asked him how to start my own magazine. So not thoughtful of me! I wish I meet more people on this trip who can give me more insights on this topic of racial comparison.
                                                                                                      October 12, 1848
        A few months ago, as I was spending my time in Trenton, I figured it had been too long since I have met another person for interviewing for my magazine. So I started researching and asking people who would be some good people for me to interview to get to know northern viewpoints in more depth. All inquiries ended up in two names: Lydia Maria Child who is an abolitionist and women's rights activist, and Frederick Douglass who is a freedman and also an abolitionist. I heard that Child was in Boston, Massachusetts right now, so I quickly packed a bag with a few clothes, my diary, my another diary for interviewing, and my collection of pens. I took the morning train to Boston and reached the city at about noon. I took a wagon and headed to the building she was residing in. While travelling to her place, I faintly recalled that Mrs. Child has written a book about history of slavery, laws about slaves and free blacks, she gives an argument against racism and slavery as well [18]. Moreover, she even accounts for blacks noted for achievements such as doctors, or lawyers, or military men [19] which is quite surprising. As I was trying to tell the security guard at the front to let me in as it was crucially important for me to talk to Mrs. Child, he was “bound by his orders”. Luckily, Mrs. Child saw me and told that guard to let me in. I introduced myself to her and she was, surprisingly, interested in giving me an interview and answer my questions. I immediately sat down with her on a table and asked her, “Mrs. Child, I have heard that you are a women’s rights activist but you also support abolition. I do not see why you would support abolition when you have an equally hard goal to achieve more important to you?”. To this, Mrs. Child replied, “Mr. Goldsmith. May I ask you if you are a slave owner?”. I looked down and nodded. “Then may I also ask you why are you against emancipation of slaves?”. I answered in an angry tone, “I fear their equality to us. How can those slaves, who are meant to serve us for eternity walk amongst us like regular citizens with rights ?”. Mrs. Child now gave me a logical answer, “First, allow me to tell you that I work equally hard for women’s rights as I do for emancipation because both are the right things to do. But coming back to topic of emancipation”, then with a sigh she added, 
“I am aware that this desirable change must be attended with much more difficulty in the Southern States, simply because the evil has been suffered until it is fearfully overgrown; but it must not be forgotten that while they are using their ingenuity and strength to sustain it for the present, the mischief is increasing more and more rapidly. If this be not a good time to apply a remedy, when will be a better? They must annihilate slavery, or slavery will annihilate them [20].”
I understood that she saw enslaving someone as a moral issue that would lead to the disaster of our society, but why did she not consider that if slaves are set free they will bring chaos because of their barbaric and ignorant nature? When I asked her this question, Mrs. Child replied, 
“It seems to be forgotten that emancipation from tyranny is not an emancipation from law; the negro, after he is made free, is restrained from the commission of crimes by the same laws which restrain other citizens: if he steals, he will be imprisoned: if he commits murder, he will be hung. It will, perhaps, be said that the free people of color in the slave portions of this country are peculiarly ignorant, idle, and vicious? It may be so: for our laws and our influence are peculiarly calculated to make them bad members of society [21]. Think about that Mr. Goldsmith. Goodbye!”
This response changed my life. It gave me a completely different opinion on slavery. I do not know if I will be able to keep my slave anymore. First thing after leaving this building is to buy Mrs. Child’s book on slavery. I now have a pretty good understanding on what northerners think of slavery as. And maybe, they are right. Even if blacks are freed, so what, they will be like regular citizens. They won’t be taking over us. If they attack me, they will be jailed. And this nation would only prosper with the added intelligence of the blacks.  
                                                                                                    July 4, 1852
        After my meeting with Mrs. Child, I decided to make my way to Frederick Douglass, the former slave and present abolitionist. I went to the harbor in Boston and found the fastest steam ship there. Luckily the captain allowed me to board after I agreed to pay extra fifty dollars. I did get a little seasick on the way but I needed to get to Rochester, New York, to hear Douglass give a speech on independence day. When I reached New York, I got on a train and arrived at Rochester about twenty minutes after Douglass’s speech had already started. I hurriedly walked to  the majestic Corinthian Hall in downtown Rochester near the Genesee River [22], and the hall, unsurprisingly, was filled with about five to six hundred people [23]. As I made my way across the crowd to reach one of the VIP seats I had booked, I started to hear words from Douglass that really caught my attention as I sat down - “I am bound to speak, and whenever there is an opportunity to do so, I will speak against slavery. This, for the purpose of the celebration, is the Fourth of July. It is the birthday of your National Independence, and of your political freedom [24]”. This part brought tears in my eyes. Douglass’s voice today, was the voice of all slaves, in North and South, as one divine force speaking of it’s suffering. The idea that someone living in America is not allowed to celebrate July 4th as an occasion of independence is terrible. But that is the ugly truth for slaves. Douglas, on the other hand gave hope through his speech. Hope for setting things right - 
“...your nation is so young….You are, even now, only in the beginning of your national career, still lingering in the period of childhood. There is hope in the thought, and hope is much needed, under the dark clouds which lower above the horizon….Were the nation older, the patriot’s heart might be sadder, and the reformer’s brow heavier. Its future might be shrouded in gloom, and the hope of its prophets go out in sorrow. [25] ” 
Frederick Douglass has really touched my heart. One can only imagine how much pain a former slave would have to bear talking about abolition in front of a white crowd on a day that marks independence. But he spoke stronger that anyone I have ever seen. His optimism is truly inspiring. I have hereby gone through an experience comparable to the great awakening. Slavery is immoral, unethical, and brutal to me. Moreover, it is illogical for a human being to enslave one another. I, William Andrew Goldsmith, swear to God that I will be emancipating my slave as soon as I reach my hometown.                        
                April 1, 1855
        After my meeting with Frederick Douglass I heard from one of my café friends in New York that Commodore Matthew C. Perry has returned from his voyage from Japan. He had successfully opened up Japan for trade with United States. This news did not excite me too much except that I found another person to interview for my magazine. I inquired and found that Perry would be staying in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania for some time. Without wasting time, I picked up my bag and headed for the train station. I reached Pittsburgh in about two days and hired a wagon to take me to the public hall where Perry was staying in. As I paid and got off the wagon, I saw there was a long line to a stage. I asked around and heard that these all were journalists for newspapers and want to gather information from Perry. I joined the line. I happen to remember how Perry got sent to Japan. The developing trade with China, growth of U.S. whaling industry, the opening up of California, progress of steam navigation, good treatment of shipwrecked sailors, and competition with Britain for far east trade, all stimulated the interest in Japan, and for this mission, Matthew Perry was chosen [26]. While waiting, I recall that Perry had mixed feelings about the Japanese [27]. He hated Japanese deceits and chicanery, yet was fond of his Japanese counterparts [28]. At about five in the afternoon, my turn came and I went up to the stage. Perry was an old man. His hair had thinned and his face completely wrinkled. He reflected my father’s portrait weeks before he died. As I approached the chair in front of him, he yelled out to the rest of the line behind me, “That’s it! Last interview! I need to rest before returning to New York!”. Well, fortunate I was! I sat down, introduced myself, and asked my question, “Sir, what do you think of Japanese intellect and behaviour towards us Americans?”. To this, the Commodore answered, 
“No person in the world exceeded the Japanese in politeness and courtesy as well as to strangers as to each other, and they are systematic in that as in all other matters, suiting the forms of their salutations to the rank and position of the person saluted. Where I have never seen a city or town exhibiting a greater degree of cleanliness….from the filthiness of all Chinese cities….Although, I have never seen such an amount of apparent wretchedness as these squalid slaves would seem to suffer. [29]”
Holy Jesus! Perry actually has mixed feelings for the Japanese. I learned from him that Chinese cities are extremely dirty, and that Japanese cities are not. But more importantly, I learnt from Perry the same lesson I learnt from Douglass, Mrs. Child, Webster, and Thoreau. Slavery is a wretched disease of society. It is to be immediately removed for it is purely evil and unethical. After asking him that, I took his leave and went to a nearby hotel to stay for the night. I can’t wait to get back home and start my magazine. I am not going to stop. I will keep meeting famous people in this country. And all this credit goes to my dear wife, Sally, who encouraged me to go on this trip to rediscover who I am and what it is to be an American.


                                                                                        










Bibliography
Books
1. Bland, Celia. Osceola: Seminole rebel, Edited by W. David Baird. New York: Chelsea House, 1994.
2. Miller, Douglas T. Henry David Thoreau: A Man for All Seasons. Bridgewater, NJ: Replica Books, 1999.
3. Colaiaco, James A. Frederick Douglass and the Fourth of July. New York: Palgrave Macmillan, 2006.
4. Nester, William R. Power across the Pacific: a diplomatic history of American relations with Japan. Basingstoke: Macmillan, 1996.
5. Child, Lydia Maria. An Appeal in Favor of That Class of Americans Called Africans. New York: John S. Taylor, 1836.
Scholarly Articles
1. Ward, James A. "A New Look at Antebellum Southern Railroad Development." The Journal of Southern History 39, no. 3 (1973): 409-20. doi:10.2307/2206259. www.jstor.org/stable/2206259.
2. Goggin, John M., and J. R. Vinton. "Osceola: Portraits, Features, and Dress." The Florida Historical Quarterly 33, no. 3/4 (1955): 161-92. http://www.jstor.org/stable/30147214.
3. Robinson, Fred C. "Noah Webster as Etymologist." Neuphilologische Mitteilungen 111, no. 2 (2010): 167-74. http://www.jstor.org/stable/43344464.
4. Pratt, Julius W. "JOHN L. O'SULLIVAN AND MANIFEST DESTINY." New York History 14, no. 3 (1933): 223-25. http://www.jstor.org/stable/24470589.
5. Holland, Patricia G. "Lydia Maria Child (1802-1880)." Legacy 5, no. 2 (1988): 49. http://www.jstor.org/stable/25679032.
6. Brown, R. Lamont. The Geographical Journal 136, no. 2 (1970): 272. doi:10.2307/1796309. www.jstor.org/stable/1796309.


________________
[1] James A. Ward, "A New Look at Antebellum Southern Railroad Development," The Journal of Southern History 39, no. 3 (1973): 409-20. doi:10.2307/2206259, www.jstor.org/stable/2206259.
[2] Celia Bland, Osceola: Seminole rebel, ed. W. David Baird (New York: Chelsea House, 1994), 59.
[3] Ibid 23.
[4] John M. Goggin, and J. R. Vinton, "Osceola: Portraits, Features, and Dress," The Florida Historical Quarterly 33, no. 3/4 (1955): 161-92, http://www.jstor.org/stable/30147214.
[5] Celia Bland, Osceola: Seminole rebel, ed. W. David Baird (New York: Chelsea House, 1994), 16.
[6] Fred C. Robinson, "Noah Webster as Etymologist," Neuphilologische Mitteilungen 111, no. 2 (2010): 167-74, http://www.jstor.org/stable/43344464.
[7] Ibid.
[8] Fred C. Robinson, "Noah Webster as Etymologist," Neuphilologische Mitteilungen 111, no. 2 (2010): 167-74, http://www.jstor.org/stable/43344464.
[9] Ibid.
[10] Douglas T. Miller, Henry David Thoreau: A Man for All Seasons (Bridgewater, NJ: Replica Books, 1999), 47.
[11] Ibid.
[12] Ibid.
[13] Douglas T. Miller, Henry David Thoreau: A Man for All Seasons (Bridgewater, NJ: Replica Books, 1999), 37.
[14] Ibid.
[15] Ibid.
[16] Julius W. Pratt, "JOHN L. O'SULLIVAN AND MANIFEST DESTINY," New York History 14, no. 3 (1933): 223-25, http://www.jstor.org/stable/24470589.
[17] Julius W. Pratt, "JOHN L. O'SULLIVAN AND MANIFEST DESTINY," New York History 14, no. 3 (1933): 226, http://www.jstor.org/stable/24470589.
[18] Patricia G. Holland, "Lydia Maria Child (1802-1880)," Legacy 5, no. 2 (1988): 49, http://www.jstor.org/stable/25679032.
[19] Ibid.
[20] Lydia Maria Child, An Appeal in Favor of That Class of Americans Called Africans (New York: John S. Taylor, 1836), 96.
[21] Ibid.
[22] James A. Colaiaco, Frederick Douglass and the Fourth of July (New York: Palgrave Macmillan, 2006), 1.
[23] Ibid 7.
[24] Ibid 37.
[25] Ibid 38.
[26] R. Lamont. Brown, The Geographical Journal 136, no. 2 (1970): 272. doi:10.2307/1796309, www.jstor.org/stable/1796309.
[27] William R. Nester, Power across the Pacific: a diplomatic history of American relations with Japan (Basingstoke: Macmillan, 1996), 35.
[28] Ibid.
[29] William R. Nester, Power across the Pacific: a diplomatic history of American relations with Japan (Basingstoke: Macmillan, 1996), 36.