Ramansh Sharma                APUSH Spring Term Research Paper                          Date-4/25/18
                                Part III
        America had fought side by side with Soviet Union during World War II against the Axis Powers of Germany, Japan, and Italy. However, American democracy and Soviet communism were two clashing different ideologies that resulted in more than half a century of tensed period during which the whole world was petrified from the fear of a World War III erupting. Although both the superpowers deliberately despised each other, neither side was willing to start World War III. Both America and Soviet Union, instead of fighting a full on nuclear war, fought through small proxy wars, through political and economic means, and with Space race. The United States, during the Cold War against Soviet Union and its allies, was led by nine major Presidents from 1945 to 1993. Although all American Presidents during the Cold War had their high and low times in regard with their domestic and foreign policies, Lyndon B. Johnson and Dwight D. Eisenhower were arguably the best Presidents in terms of their overall achievements to benefit the American interests and its people. Furthermore, Ronald Reagan and Richard Nixon are conceivably the worst Presidents during the Cold War era.  Johnson worked for more public satisfaction with Great Society programs, made Medicaid and Medicare to help elderly and disabled, and made immigration reforms. Although he was not the cause of it, Johnson gets pulled into Vietnam war to counteract which he uses military force, special intelligence, and covert operations. Eisenhower followed Modern Republicanism through with he enacted various social welfare programs, education reform, and exercised federal power to enforce decisions. He also built up the army through military Keynesianism, followed the New Look policy of asymmetrical containment, saw to the end of Korean War, and sent covert operations to help other countries fight communism. Reagan used Reaganomics and taxation to help the economy but which results in the Reagan Recession, and fought against Social Security, Medicaid, and Medicare. The Cold War escalated under him and, apart from which he was involved in the Iran-Contra scandal. Under Nixon, the economy struggled to stabilize, unemployment rose, and the legendary Watergate scandal was exposed. He used Madman Theory to fight against Vietnam, OPEC raises oil prices for US as a result of Kissinger’s continued effort to bring peace in Middle East causing energy crisis in America, and he committed treason by secretly asking South Vietnam to deny to make the treaty with Lyndon B. Johnson in 1968, so that he could make the peace treaty later on.         
Lyndon Johnson worked for more public satisfaction with Great Society programs, made Medicaid and Medicare to help elderly and disabled, and made immigration reforms. Johnson obtained passage of sweeping new civil rights laws, tax reductions to stimulate the economy in the Great Society, a multi billion dollar anti-poverty program [1]. He also issued federal aid for all aspects of education, and increased social security benefits that included medical care for the aged [2]. The themes of this program were abundance and liberty for all, an end to poverty, and an end to racial justice. The public loved these programs, and he used that to his benefit. He made it clear in his inaugural address, 
“I do not believe that the Great Society is the ordered, changeless, and sterile battalion of the ants. It is the excitement of becoming-always becoming, trying, probing, falling, resting, and trying again--but always trying and always gaining….If we fail now then we will have forgotten in abundance what we learned in hardship: that democracy rests on faith, that freedom asks more than it gives…Our fate as a nation and our future as a people rests not upon one citizen but upon all citizens” [3] 
Through his unifying diction, he brought a sense of unity and strength among the American people after the mournful assassination of Kennedy. Among the programs of Great Society were Civil Rights Act of 1964, (Kennedy’s proposal) that outlawed discrimination and segregation in public places. It authorized Justice Department to prosecute states that discriminate based on race or gender, and the Voting Rights Act of 1965, that outlawed barriers to voting such as literacy tests that whites had used to screen out blacks for long time, and promised to prosecute those who used these illegal tacts- it made the 15th Amendment real. Although this was mostly warmly welcomed by people, there were unintended consequences such as the hail of riots and protests from 1964 to 1968 in Harlem, Los Angeles, Detroit, and all over America in which Malcolm X and Martin Luther King Jr. were also assassinated. Johnson’s Office of Economic Opportunities Act in 1964, was an effort of his famous “war on poverty” movement. The Act had branches including Head Start, which provided education for pre-schoolers form low-income families, Project Upward Bound, which helped high-schoolers from low-income families attend college, and the Job Corps, which gave job training to high school dropouts. A similar act expanded on ideas of New Deal and New Frontier. Launched by Equal Opportunity Act of 1964, included work-study programs for college students, Neighbourhood Youth Corps, adult job training, and CAPS, which allowed poor people to devise and administer programs that they believed would help them. Johnson not only gave direct aid to the needy, but also made them self-sufficient. After enacting the Medicare and Medicaid acts, and the he talked about it in his first state of the union address in 1964, “Let this session of Congress be known as the session which did more for civil rights than the last hundred sessions combined….as the session which declared all-out war on human poverty and unemployment in these United States; as the session which finally recognized the health needs of all our older citizens” [4]. He was clearly sending out an optimistic feeling on what is to come from the Great Society programs. While Truman and Eisenhower initiated American presence in Vietnam, Kennedy sent special forces there [5]. In order to stand by the containment theory and protect the independence of South Vietnam, he approved the NSAM 723, which a national security agency, in 1963, which directed the American government to assist the people and Government of South Vietnam to win their contest against the communist North Vietnam threat. He also transferred covert operations from CIA to the military by approving OPLAN 34A-64 in 1964. When American destroyers were reported to have been attacked in August 1964 by the North Vietnamese torpedo boats in Gulf of Tonkin, Johnson passes the The Gulf of Tonkin Resolution in the same month that gave him the authority to use force in Vietnam, to “prevent further aggression” [6]. He launched a retaliatory attack with U.S. aircraft and stepped up aid to South Vietnam [7]. America needed to win the war in order to protect Japan and belief that America had power to overcome any foe. Meanwhile, the country was divided from this war. While some wanted an immediate end of American bombing of North Vietnam and a stop to the draft, others wanted America to step up the war and win a clear cut victory [8]. In his famous 1965 speech, Peace without Conquest, Johnson said, “stating that he is not the one to start America’s involvement in Vietnam, but it would be dishonorable to what previous presidents have started if he backs out in the middle of a war against communism” [9]. Moreover, Johnson claims that leaving Vietnam to fall under communism would shake the confidence of the world in America [10]. This speech secured him enough popular support for a war he did not want, but could not see how to avoid. Johnson goes on to make CORDS, which was designed to replicate the method of NLF in order to gain control of the Vietnamese countryside. Operation Phoenix was successful as it captured about 28,000 NLF operatives, and assassinated 20,000 of them in order to make a high body count hoping the NLF would surrender, as part of the attrition goal. However, Johnson faced huge humiliation in the Tet Offensive problem in 1968. In 1968, both sides had agreed to ceasefire in observation of Lunar New Year. However, the NLF and Viet Cong broke the deal, hitting five out of six big cities in the South and inflicting massive destruction in the cities. This resulted in a credibility gap as the public had been told that victory was imminent and that North Vietnam could not stand a chance against U.S. However, this surprise attack brought down public faith and confidence in the war. Televised images of this Tet Offensive and U.S. allies killing innocent Vietnamese people with brutality in war zones, made American public question the morality and purpose of the war [11]. Moreover, the Great Society programs were starting to see less funding for them as war expenses increased. Even though Johnson’s popularity decreased so much that he did not even run for re-election in 1968, he was the best President in the Cold War. During a period of unrest, he brought back American confidence and faith in the government (especially after Kennedy’s assassination) with social welfare programs such as Medicaid and Medicare that helped the needy and education reforms. He also fought back North Vietnamese aggression handed down to him from earlier Presidents. His goal was to preserve American status as a superpower fighting against communism, which he accomplished. 
        Dwight Eisenhower was the next best President during the Cold War. Under his presidency, American experienced a steady economic growth, development of more automobiles and higher standards of living in suburban areas, and a boost in American culture under the Eisenhower Equilibrium. He also took measures to increase the number of jobs, exercised strong federal authority, and advanced in the space race. Eisenhower also practiced military Keynesianism, New Look at containment theory with Brinkmanship ideas and Massive Retaliation, military efforts against North Vietnam, attempts to make peace with Soviet Union, and the use of Eisenhower Doctrine in Middle East to fight against communism. Eisenhower 1956 Interstate Highway Act (actually intended to serve as evacuation technique in a nuclear war) which created a lot of jobs, shortened travel time, and channeled city growth.. Under his “equilibrium”, spectator sports became very popular, TV became part of national culture rock and roll took off with both black and white performers, which made the youth culture have less respect for cultural and racial boundaries [12]. After the Brown vs. Board of Education declared segregation in schools illegal, huge protests erupted around the country. In 1957, Eisenhower sent army of troops into Arkansas when state governor Orval Faubus refused to desegregate schools following court order. This display of federal authority led by year’s end to the admission of the Little Rock Nine students. He did it for presidential authority, not morality. It sent a clear message that state powers do not go above federal laws [13]. The Civil Rights Act of 1957 established a permanent Civil Rights Commission and a Civil Rights Division of the Justice Department [14]. After the Soviet Union launched their unmanned satellite Sputnik I in 1957 into space, Eisenhower advanced quickly into the space race. American launched Explorer I in 1958. Later the same year, Congress created NASA and passed National Defense Education Act to fund scientific and foreign language studies [15]Eisenhower was determined to remove all the “Reds” from the government [16]. This was because of the Red Scare brought about by Senator Joseph McCarthy, whose movement, which became known as McCarthyism, suspected that the government and the military were filled with communist spies. Guilt by association was the new reason for arrest. After the arrest and conviction of Alger Hiss from state department, and Klaus Fuchs, an atomic bomb researcher, the public began to feel insecure in their own country. By the autumn of 1953, when the Fort Monmouth hearings were taking place, the government had removed more than two thousand federal employees [17]. Moreover, in July 1953, following the death of Stalin in march and a quiet threat by Eisenhower to use the atomic bomb, North Korea signed a truce with the United Nations [18]. Therefore, Eisenhower used massive retaliation techniques in which he threatened North Korea with a nuclear attack at places and times of its own choosing, thus preserving the element of surprise. In this way, he oversaw the end of Korean War. He also approved NSC 162/2 in 1953, which reflected Eisenhower's desire for a "long-haul" approach to security planning that would maintain a constant level of military preparedness, consistent with the health of the U.S. economy. It differed from NSC 68, approved by Truman. Truman's advisers believed that Soviet military capabilities would reach a maximum relative to those of the US in the mid-1950s. Eisenhower rejected the idea that one period would be any more dangerous than another and urged his planners to think in terms of a Soviet threat that was economic as well as military, thus being prepared for either one of those threats. He believed that America should focus on areas of the world that really mattered, where U.S. could win without hurting its economy. In fear of the Domino Theory, Eisenhower believed in Brinkmanship, risking nuclear war to intimidate China and Soviet Union. He also issued CIA covert operations such as Ajax in 1953 to overthrow Iran’s government leader MOhammed Mossadegh (pro-Soviet) and replace with friendly despotic shah of Iran [19], PBSUCCESS in 1954 to overthrow potentially communist government of Guatemala, and the CIA effort to overthrow Indonesia’s government in 1957-58 but only starting a civil war. As for Vietnam, in 1954, he decided not to commit US troops to Vietnam in order to prevent a communist victory over French troops. However, he does make U.S. a protector of newly created non-communist South Vietnam. Eisenhower also worked upon peaceful coexistence with Soviet Union. In 1953, Eisenhower made the Atoms for Peace act which proposed controlling arms race and using nuclear power for peaceful powerful generation instead of warfare. He proposed Open Skies in 1955, which would allow boths sides to surveillance flights over each other’s territories which would reduce fears of war, but was rejected by the Soviets. This partially led to the 1957 Eisenhower Doctrine, that promised American force to counteract any communist aggression in Middle Eastern countries. In 1960, Eisenhower was humiliated in front of the whole world when the pilot, Francis Powers, of the U.S. plane that Soviet Union shot down, did not commit suicide and confirmed he was carrying out a stealth mission. Eisenhower denied this claim, but Soviet Union knew the truth which affected the two nations’ next meeting. To counteract this, Eisenhower made the pact-o-mania alliance with 42 other nations to strengthen their stand against communism. Therefore, Eisenhower worked upon desegregation in America by exerting federal power, promoting educational reforms, advancing into the space race, fighting against communism in Korea, Vietnam, and Middle East, and sending CIA to overthrow potentially communist governments without a full fledged war. He maintained a balance between aggressive force and peaceful negotiations to protect America from falling to communist dominance, meanwhile preserving the public faith and confidence in the government. 
        Ronald Reagan enacted a lot of criticized and disliked domestic policies many of which led to the Reagan Recession. He was especially criticized for his determination to cut back on Medicare and Medicaid. He was also involved in the Iran-Contra scandal which brought back the “American nightmare” that Gerald Ford declared had ended after the Watergate scandal. Reagan’s own cabinet members often disliked him. Martin Anderson, Reagan’s economic adviser and his most ardent supporter, described working for Reagan as, “chaotic, rudderless enterprise, lacking in coherence or direction….made no demands, and gave no instructions” [20]. He appealed more to the public than Carter because he promised to bring the country out of the devastated economy. Just like the New Federalist he wanted to be, he clearly mentioned in his inaugural address that, 
“In this present crisis, government is not the solution to our problem; government is the problem. From time to time we've been tempted to believe that society has become too complex to be managed by self-rule, that government by an elite group is superior to government for, by, and of the people. Well, if no one among us is capable of governing himself, then who among us has the capacity to govern someone else?” [21]
His rhetorical questions towards the reader imply that he does not want the federal government to cure the economy. He wanted a supply side economy with laissez faire and free market policy. He was influenced by economist Arthur Laffer, an opposer to the popular Keynesian methods. The Economic Recovery Tax Act of 1981, signed into law in July 1981, cut the top marginal tax rate from 70% to 50% and lowered the estate tax and the corporate tax. When the Federal Reserve under Paul Volcker tightened interest rates to treat inflation, the economy plunged into recession and Reagan's popularity dipped with it in what came to be known as the Reagan Recession. Reagan's prediction that the tax cuts would increase revenues missed the mark, at least during the 1981-82 recession. The 1982 budget deficit was $113 billion—$30 billion more than when Carter left office. Unemployment rose to 11 percent and Reagan looked like a liar to the public. However, Reagan believed that tight interests rates would eventually work out. Over time, despite the costs of the recession, the Fed's policies did work and started the economy boom that began in 1983. However, the people’s attention swavered to the Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 1982, and the Deficit Reduction Act of 1984 that raised taxes in order to bring down growing national debt [22]. In 1982, Reagan made ill-considered remarks about Martin Luther King, Jr., as Congress debated making King's birthday a national holiday and supported University of South Carolina against IRS denying them tax breaks because it was a segregated school. These actions brought down Reagan’s popularity. The Tax Reform Act of 1986 removed six million poor Americans from the income tax roll and reduced the income tax liability at all income levels. When it became obvious that federal spending needed to be reduced, Reagan proposed cuts in  Medicaid and the Office of Economic Opportunity. Reagan cut the budgets of non-military programs including food stamps, federal education programs and the EPA. He also lost his support from immigrants when he signed the Immigration Reform and Control Act 1986 that reduced immigration job benefits and knowingly hiring illegal immigrants. Under Reagan, the Cold War escalated. He called Carter’s foreign policy a “sad chapter” [23] in American history. He issued a massive build up of the U.S. Armed Forces and implemented new policies towards the Soviet Union: reviving the B-1 Lancer program that had been canceled by the Carter administration, and producing the MX missile. In response to Soviet deployment of the SS-20, Reagan oversaw NATO's deployment of the Pershing missile in West Germany. He also started the SDI program in 1983 which was supposed to would have used ground and space-based systems to protect the US from attack by nuclear ballistic missiles. Reagan believed that this defense shield could make nuclear war impossible. However due to concerns about cost and effectiveness, it was canceled in 1993. Under Reagan Doctrine, U.S. provided aid to anti-communist resistance movements in Africa, Asia, and Latin America. Reagan sent the CIA to Afghanistan and Pakistan, where CIA was crucial in training, equipping, and leading Mujahideen forces against the Soviet Army in the Soviet Afghan War. By 1987, the US was sending over $600 million a year [24]. Reagan was also bitterly remembered for the Iran-Contra scandal in which he authorized CIA Director Casey to arm the right wing Contras, who were rebel groups against left wing Sandinistas, early in his tenure. Later on U.S. sold 2,000 missiles to Iran for them to convince Hezbollah (a Lebanese militant group under Iran) to release American hostages, and the money from the missiles were given to the Contras going against the Boland Amendment of 1982 (which prohibited that), secretly. When this became public in 1986, he appointed the Tower Commission which confirmed the deals [25]. He testified against knowing about them (which was true even though he influenced the deals), and was pardoned by Congress. It became known as the second worst scandal after Watergate. Reagan was not a popular President among the public. They had lost the hope of truth and dignity from the government once again. Even though Reagan did not succeed in most of his efforts, he did initiate the economic boom which began in 1983, and the INF treaty with Soviet Union’s leader Mikhail Gorbachev in Washington Summit 1987 that reduced both sides’ nuclear arsenals. However, his overall stance against Social Security, Medicaid, and Medicare, the Reagan Recession, the extensive interest rates, and the Iran-Contra scandal earned him an opinion of a poor President during the Cold War.
        Richard Nixon was arguably the worst President of the Cold War era. Even though Nixon issued numerous acts to protect and preserve the environment, Nixon failed in his domestic policies for he was held responsible for high unemployment levels, stagflating economy, and the most infamous scandal of all- the Watergate scandal. In his foreign affairs, Nixon’s invasion of Cambodia was met with massive resistance back at home among the new counterculture university students. Nixon passed the Occupational Safety and Health Administration to prevent on-job injuries, along with EPA, NOAA, and amendments to the Clean Air act in 1967 in efforts to rising concern for the environment. He also signed the 1972 Noise Control Act, the 1972 Marine Mammal Protection Act, the 1973 Endangered Species Act, and the 1974 Safe Drinking Water Act. By the end of 1970, unemployment rose to 6 percent! When Nixon delayed federal employees pay raises by six months, because his newly appointed chief economic adviser Arthur Burns said if Nixon failed to hold federal spending under $200 billion, Burns would continue to keep the money supply tight to fight inflation, this led to a strike by nationwide postal workers. Even though he used the army to keep the postal system going on, he eventually surrendered to the workers demands going against balancing budgets as Burns suggested. This shows his weak grasp over domestic issues and public protests. Instead of taking a bold step and facing the protests, Nixon gave up and let the economy go down the drain. By middle of 1971, unemployment rose to 6.2 percent and inflation increased even more! When Nixon was about to enter congressional campaign, he was facing issues like unemployment, inflation, and demands for income policies to control skyrocketing wages and prices. Chief Economic Spokesperson John Connally publicly said that “the president will not increase federal spending, ask Congress for a tax relief, impose mandatory price and wage controls, or make a wage-price board”. Nixon had to gather all his economic advisers at Camp David to make the NEP, design  Executive Order 11615, and ask for 10% import tax to gather just enough public approval for his reelection in 1972. Another downturn came in 1973, with expansive monetary policies and a shortage of food (due to massive Soviet purchases of American wheat) to cause inflation. Oil prices were rising and then came the Arab oil boycott in october 1973. Inflation climbed to 12.1% in 1974 plunging the economy into yet another recession. The economy was evidently Nixon’s weak spot. However, in his speech, The Challenge of Peace, he mentions, 
“To give that system a powerful new stimulus, I shall ask the Congress….the enactment of the Job Development Act of 1971. I will propose to provide the strongest short term incentive in our history to invest in new machinery and equipment that will create new jobs for Americans: a 10 percent Job Development Credit for 1 year, effective as of today, with a 5 percent credit after August 15, 1972” [26]
which showed that he has some plans to improvise. Nixon said in his inaugural address regarding Vietnam, “We are caught in war, wanting peace. We’re torn by divisions, wanting unity. We see around us empty lives, wanting fulfillment” [27]. He uses the pronoun “we” to try to talk to America as a common man who is troubled by the war just as they are. He carried out Vietnamization, pulling out American troops and replacing them with South Vietnamese to fight the battles, and increasing bombing on North Vietnam. When Nixon bombed Cambodia in 1969 with B-52 bombers, in order to show enough aggression to portray use of use nukes to end war, and cut supply lines to North Vietnam [28]. Students at University of Berkeley widely protested this move and were met with brutal force from the police to dismantle them. The public was now getting increasingly angry about the war and the measures Nixon was taking to combat it. In 1967, Martin Luther King Jr. said in his Beyond Vietnam speech, 
“Somehow this madness must cease. We must stop now. I speak as a child of God and brother to the suffering poor of Vietnam. I speak for those whose land is being laid waste, whose homes are being destroyed, whose culture is being subverted. I speak for the poor of America who are paying the double price of smashed hopes at home and death and corruption in Vietnam. I speak as a citizen of the world, for the world as it stands aghast at the path we have taken. I speak as an American to the leaders of my own nation.” [29]
Reverend King invokes Buddhist ideas in this speech to convey one meaning- the war is not worth it. Nixon naturally was losing his popularity as a result of this. And regarding, the Watergate scandal - Nixon and his administration tried to cover up Nixon’s misdeeds of forming his own secret police without Congressional authorization. This organization was C.R.E.E.P. that included Attorney General John Marshall, Counsel John Deane, and the ex-CIA and ex-FBI agents in it to do the dirty work were called The Plumbers, 5 of whose members broke into DNC Watergate headquarters in 1972, in order to find about the Pentagon papers that would expose secret actions of earlier presidents. This led to Congress, the media, and the independent prosecutor Archibald Cox who had maximum authority in the case to investigating the scandal. Nixon even asked CIA to tell FBI to stay out of the investigation and just wave it off as a “comedy of errors”. Although the White House saved any information from being exposed till Nixon’s reelection in 1972, he had to use (abuse) executive power to keep the upcoming FBI chief L. Patrick Gray from testifying before Senate Watergate Committee to reveal confirmations that he had allowed White House legal counsel to sit in FBI interview of suspects. After he fired several top government officials, his own attorney general resigned which became known as “The Saturday Massacre”. Nixon, compelled to comply, gave in tapes (evidence) which ended his presidency, and he resigned in August 1974. He could have admitted to making the police and still saved himself. But when he started lying and obstructing evidence, he stepped right into his demise. Moreover, in the Chennault Affair, Nixon is known to have urged South Vietnam to deny making a treaty with Lyndon Johnson, and wait till Nixon’s presidency for a better deal. These facts show that Nixon was a troubled person, who as an overall President, failed America in both domestic and foreign affairs.
        In conclusion, it does not depend on one event that can define a President’s everlasting perception in Cold War. It is shaped throughout their presidencies. Lyndon Johnson effectively is the best Cold War President as he not only oversaw an end to Korean War and presented a strong start in Vietnam War, but also enacted numerous policies and acts to help the public in social and economic ways. Dwight Eisenhower is another great President during the era for he not only oversaw public development of works and creation of jobs, but also gave aid to countries fighting against communism and sent CIA operations to overthrow communist regimes. Reagan is arguably a poor President since he devastated the economy and plunged the country in Reagan Recession and brought back the horrors of another scandal with his own Iran-Contra affair. Nixon is the worst Cold War President as he not only poorly handled the Vietnam War and the American economy, but also gave America a true “nightmare” in the Watergate Scandal that took away American confidence in the government. This is important because America, right now, is in a similar situation with President Trump struggling to fight against North Korean communist regime. Understanding, the Cold War Presidents better, will allow America to plan out its steps more carefully in the future.


























        










Bibliography
Books
1. Whitney, David C., and Robin Vaughn Whitney. The American Presidents. 11th ed. Pleasantville, NY, Montreal: Readers Digest Association, 2009. 
2. Dunn, John M. The Vietnam War. A History of U.S. Involvement. San Diego, CA: Lucent Books, 2000.
3. Reeves, Thomas C. Twentieth-century America: A Brief History. New York: Oxford University Press, 2000.
4. Zeinert, Karen. McCarthy and the Fear of Communism in American History. Springfield, NJ: Enslow Publishers, 1998.
5. Tygiel, Jules. Ronald Reagan and the Triumph of American Conservatism. New York: Pearson Longman, 2006.


Primary Sources
1. Johnson , Lyndon B.,  “Inaugural Address”. Inaugural Address at U.S. Capitol, Washington DC. January 20, 1965.
2. Johnson , Lyndon B.,  “State of the Union Address”. State of the Union Address at U.S. Capitol, Washington DC. January 20, 1964.
3. Johnson , Lyndon B.,  “Peace Without Conquest”. Speech at John Hopkins University, Baltimore. April 7, 1965.
4. Reagan , Ronald W.,  “Inaugural Address”. Inaugural Address at U.S. Capitol, Washington DC. January 20, 1981.
5. Nixon, Richard M., “Challenge of Peace”. Speech at U.S. Capitol, Washington DC. January 15, 1971.
6. King Jr., Martin L., “Beyond Vietnam”. Speech at Riverside Church, New York City, New York. April 4, 1967.














________________
[1] David C. Whitney and Robin Vaughn Whitney, The American Presidents (11th ed. Pleasantville, NY, Montreal: Readers Digest Association, 2009), 339.
[2] Ibid, 339.
[3] Lyndon B. Johnson,  “Inaugural Address” (Inaugural Address at U.S. Capitol, Washington DC. January 20, 1965).
[4] Lyndon B. Johnson,  “State of the Union Address” (State of the Union Address at U.S. Capitol, Washington DC. January 20, 1964).
[5] David C. Whitney and Robin Vaughn Whitney, The American Presidents (11th ed. Pleasantville, NY, Montreal: Readers Digest Association, 2009), 348.
[6] Ibid, 349.
[7] Ibid, 349.
[8] David C. Whitney and Robin Vaughn Whitney, The American Presidents (11th ed. Pleasantville, NY, Montreal: Readers Digest Association, 2009),  349.
[9] Lyndon B. Johnson,  “Peace Without Conquest” (Speech at John Hopkins University, Baltimore. April 7, 1965).  http://www.jstor.org/stable/27552240.
[10] Ibid.
[11] John M. Dunn, The Vietnam War. A History of U.S. Involvement (San Diego, CA: Lucent Books, 2000), 56-58.
[12] Thomas C. Reeves, Twentieth-century America: A Brief History (New York: Oxford University Press, 2000), 157.
[13] Thomas C. Reeves, Twentieth-century America: A Brief History (New York: Oxford University Press, 2000), 163.
[14] Ibid, 163. 
[15] Ibid, 165.
[16] Karen Zeinert, McCarthy and the Fear of Communism in American History (Springfield, NJ: Enslow Publishers, 1998), 92.
[17] Ibid, 92.
[18] Thomas C. Reeves, Twentieth-century America: A Brief History (New York: Oxford University Press, 2000), 152.
[19] Thomas C. Reeves, Twentieth-century America: A Brief History (New York: Oxford University Press, 2000), 167.
[20] Jules. Tygiel, Ronald Reagan and the Triumph of American Conservatism (New York: Pearson Longman, 2006), 117.
[21] Ronald W. Reagan.,  “Inaugural Address” (Inaugural Address at U.S. Capitol, Washington DC. January 20, 1981).
[22] Jules. Tygiel, Ronald Reagan and the Triumph of American Conservatism (New York: Pearson Longman, 2006), 176.
[23] Ibid, 115. 
[24] Jules. Tygiel, Ronald Reagan and the Triumph of American Conservatism (New York: Pearson Longman, 2006), 174.
[25]Ibid, 175.
[26] Richard M. Nixon, “Challenge of Peace” (Speech at U.S. Capitol, Washington DC. January 15, 1971).
[27] John M. Dunn, The Vietnam War. A History of U.S. Involvement (San Diego, CA: Lucent Books, 2000), 76.


[28] John M. Dunn, The Vietnam War. A History of U.S. Involvement (San Diego, CA: Lucent Books, 2000), 78.
[29] Martin L. King Jr., “Beyond Vietnam” (Speech at Riverside Church, New York City, New York. April 4, 1967).