Ramansh Sharma                        APUSH Spring Research Paper                               Date-4/6/18
Part I: The Chart                        


President
	Domestic Policies/Events
	Foreign Policies/Events
	Truman
	1. 1949: Fair Deal- Advocated national health insurance, federal aid to education, enactment of Fair Employment Practices Commission to prevent racial discrimination in the workplace, and overhaul FDR’s farm subsidy programs. These measures were never put to law.
   * Success: Raised minimum wage to 75 cents/hour and broadened Social Security to cover ten million more Americans. Rest of package not passed (cost too high).
2. Truman did not inspire confidence in American public. He appointed old Missouri cronies to positions and tried to perpetuate New Deal, which led to a battle with Congress. Post-war mood was not conductive to New Deal reform. 
3. 1946: RR workers and Coal miners went on strike and paralyzed most of US transportation system. Prices rose and consumers lost faith in Truman. He helped end the strike. “To err is Truman” and “Had enough” were common for Truman. In 1946, Republicans took control of Congress.
4. Nation Security Act of 1947: reshaped nation’s major military and diplomatic institutions. A new department of defense would oversee all branched of the armed services, combining functions previously performed by that war and navy departments. A National Security Council (NSC) operating out of White House, would govern foreign and military policy. A Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) would replace wartime office of Strategic services. This act, in other words, gave the president expanded powers with which to pursue national and international goals.
5. 1947: Taft-Hartley Act- outlawed unfair labor practices included the closed shop and secondary boycotts. Permitted President to invoke a 8- day cooling-off period to delay strikes that might endanger national health and safety. Passed over Truman’s veto.
6. 1947: Truman gave speech to NAACP, discussing the importance of every man regardless of color has the right to adequate health care, education, decent home and salary, a worthwhile job, his voice heard in making public decisions, and a fair trial.
7. Election of 1948: Truman narrowly defeated John Dewey of NY. Truman ran against “Do-Nothing Congress” and won back Congress for his party.
8. 1948: Upon Truman’s request, Congress approved a new military draft and revived the Selective Service System.
9. 1948: Truman signed Executive Order 9981 which abolished racial discrimination in the US Armed forces and also led to end of segregation in other services.
10. Truman also approved the development of a new hydrogen bomb, far more powerful than the bombs US had used in 1945.
11. During Korean War, to control wartime economy at home, Truman set up Office of defense Mobilization to fight inflation by holding down prices and discouraging high union wage demands.
12. As HUAC suspected there were communist agents in Departments of Agriculture and Treasury in 1946 (Second Red Scare), Truman initiated a “Loyalty Program” in March 1947 to root out any susceptible communists. Many people lost their jobs. 
   * Treasury Department official Harry DExter WHite accused of spying for USSR. He was identified as a Soviet spy code-named “Jurist” under The Venona Cables in July 1948.
   * Alger Hiss from state department, was accused of being communist, and convicted to 4 years in jail in 1948.
   * In 1950, Klaus Fuchs, atomic bomb researcher, admitted giving Soviets info on A-Bomb, was convicted to 9 years in prison.
13. McCarthyism - a belief that communism was so evil that it must be destroyed where people had to believe in “guilt by association” destroy people’s reputations, and take their jobs-even without hard evidence.
14. U.S. Senator Joseph R. McCarthy was closely related to this anti-communist crusade as he charged celebrities, intellects and opposing politicians with acts of disloyalty. 
15. In February 1950, he falsely claimed he had names of 205 communists working in State Department, without ever providing evidence.
16. McCarthy created anti-communist hysteria. Fellow senators feared his command of public opinion, McCarthy was a class demagogue (like Huey Long). He even attacked fellow Republicans and Hollywood directors.
	1. Gave the order to strike Hiroshima and Nagasaki with atomic bombs to effectively end World War II.
2. March 1947: The Truman Doctrine- Truman asked Congress for $400 million to aid Greeks and Turks. It was now the duty of I.S. to support free people who were resisting armed minority supported by outside pressure. Greek communists defeated in 1949.
3. June 1947: The Marshall Plan- Western Europe was main concern of US . Feared Soviet domination. Food was scarce, industrial machinery, and lacked housing and jobs. Communist parties were gaining strength in Italy and France. This plan offered economic aid to all countries who wanted it, including the USSR to help rebuild economies. USSR rejected the aid. US gave $17 billion over 4 years to Western Europe.
4. 1948-49 NATO: The Western Military Alliance- Europeans wanted to create a security arrangement to protect them from USSR. April 1949: This treaty brought together US, Canada, and 10 European nations to sign a mutual defense treaty. Attack on one is attack on all. US sent 4 divisions to West Germany to provide presence and commitment. To attack US forces was to ignite WWIII.
5. 1948-49: The Berlin Blockade- Stalin cut off all rail and highway traffic to Berlin in June 1948. Operation Vittles - Truman ordered a massive airlift for the 10,000 troops and civilians in west Berlin. Sent in 2500 tons of supplies every 24 hours. Sent 60 B-29 bombers to British airbases to show Stalin that US meant business. Stalin did not try to stop the airlift, but rejected any diplomatic overture. Early 1949- Stalin ended the blockade. US achieved a striking political victory. Stalin’s plan backfired, since it helped bring about NATO. 
6. National Defense policy- “Symmetrical Containment” to prevent spread of communism everywhere (all areas of world were considered equally important). April 1950: NSC-68: Dean Acheson authors a new US defense policy that argued that USSR wanted to impose its absolute authority over rest of the world (contrast with Eisenhower’s “New Look” policy) and predicted that 1954 was a year of “maximum danger” in which USSR might launch a nuclear strike on US if US did not build up its military capability. This advocated drastic expansion of military spending on long run. Said US could spend upward of 50% of GNP on defense without worrying about balanced budgets or long term solvency. From $13 billion to $50 billion a year into national security. Goal was to build up “situations of strength” in which US could possibly counteract communist forces in Europe and elsewhere.
7. The Korean War: After WWII, USSR occupied Korea north of 38 parallel and installed pro-Soviet communist government led by Kim II-Sung. In the more populous and agrarian south, US supported nationalist government under Syngman Rhee. When North Korea attacked on 25th June 1950 (Stalin and Mao supported the invasion), Truman immediately ordered American military intervention to push North Koreans out of south. Organized UN police actions with many nations participating. In December 1950, when Chinese military counterattacked MacArthur’s invasion of North Korea (which reached near Chinese border), Truman denied MacArthur’s request to nuke China, and in April 1951, relieved him of his command (MacArthur returned home as a hero).
8. War helped solidify NSC-68 as a basic defense policy for US in Cold war. Led to $50 billion a year defense budget.
9. Truman sent a 35 men military force to train anti-communist soldiers in Vietnam.
	Eisenhower
	1. April 1953: the President ordered that government agencies fire all those guilty of “sexual perversion” (homosexuality) (Lavender Scare).
2. 1954: McCarthy said that US army was filled with communists. He led a televised senate investigation, however the public hated his tactics, and his popularity plummeted. Senate censured him for misconduct.
3. Relative Affluence: Americans lived in relative affluence by taking advantage of all the postwar opportunities, found wives, purchased homes, and built families with extraordinary alacrity. 
4. Baby Boom: men and women married at increasingly younger ages and spawned an unprecedented number of children in short order. Reflected faith in economy and desire to express oneself in dangerous world.
5. Perils of Conformity: general resentment against suburban life.
6. GNP growed continuously throughout throughout the 1950s (except plunge in 1948).
7. Car sales went through the roofs and pushed economy forward. From 6.7 million cars sold in 1950 to 7.9 million in 1955! General Motors became America’s first billion dollar corporation.
8. Mass cultural developments during 1950s: time of change despite categorizations life “The Silent 50s” or “The Eisenhower Equilibrium”. 
   * Spectator sports became very popular and extremely lucrative.
   * Fast food and Motels became big businesses with expansion of American roadways due to 1956 Interstate Highway Act. 
   * TV became heart of national culture. 172K US households had them in 1948, 15.3 million had them in 1952.
   * Rock and Roll took off with both black and white performers doing well, and this medium along with TV helped forge the coherent youth culture that had less respect for cultural and racial boundaries.
9. Suburbanization during 1950s: Postwar housing boom produces stark geographic segregation, with white suburbs and black cities. Suburbs held 33% of population by 1960.
10. Modern Republicanism: moderate political philosophy that promised no great new reforms but did promise to balance the budget, reduce inflation, and keep the economy strong. Eisenhower only balanced the budget twice in 8 years.
11. 1954: Extended Social Security to 7 million more Americans. Raised minimum wage to $1/hr. Created departments of health, education, and welfare.  Opposed national health insurance and any comprehensive federal aid to schools.
12. 1956: Highway Act: created interstate highway system (military reasons to evacuate cities in event of nuclear war). Helped trucking, organized labor, and farmers. Shortened travel time and channeled city growth.
13. Brown vs Board of Education declared segregation illegal. This decision was met with massive resistance at places. Senator Harry Byrd called for South to resist the implementation. Several Virginia school districts shut down all public schools, 1959-1964.
14. Emmett Till’s murder in 1955 was a turning point for civil rights movement in a way. Both, North and South, saw the terrifying corpse of the boy, and the brutality he was met with because of his race.
15. 1957: Eisenhower sent army of troops into Arkansas when state governor, Orval Faubus, refused to desegregate schools following court order of Brown vs Board of Education. He did it for presidential authority, not morality.
16. Reaction to USSR’s Sputnik, sent to orbit earth- led to panic and insecurity in US. Congress established NASA in 1958 and invested a lot of money in it.
17. National Defense Education Act- authorized federal financing of scientific and foreign language instruction in schools and colleges. 
	1. Military Keynesianism: started during Korean War, stimulated the economy but directed money to military more than civilian life. Was used to build up America’s military to keep it’s position as the world police and superpower.
2. New Look at Containment: a national security policy of the Department of Defense budget for Fiscal Year 1955. It was based on an extensive reappraisal of U.S. military requirements that began among Eisenhower and his closest advisers. It was formalized in National Security Council document 162/2 (NSC 162/2), which Eisenhower approved in 1953. NSC 162/2 reflected Eisenhower's desire for a "long-haul" approach to security planning that would maintain a constant level of military preparedness, consistent with the health of the U.S. economy. In this respect, it differed from NSC 68, approved by Truman. Truman's advisers believed that Soviet military capabilities would reach a maximum relative to those of the US in the mid-1950s. Eisenhower rejected the idea that one period would be any more dangerous than another and urged his planners to think in terms of a Soviet threat that was economic as well as military, thus being prepared for either one of those threats. 
3. Eisenhower supported asymmetrical containment in which he wanted to confront communist areas that really mattered, in areas where US could win, and in areas where the US economy would not be hurt.
4. Massive Retaliation: As part of the New Look policy, US would respond to any communist aggression with massive nuclear force at places and at times of its own choosing, thus preserving the element of surprise. 
5. Brinkmanship: willingness to risk nuclear war in order to intimidate the Soviet Union and China. Based on fear of Domino Theory, that any country lost to communism will cause a domino effect which will make its way to America eventually isolating and surrounding it completely.
6. US would use CIA to overthrow communist regimes cheaply rather than massive funded wars. 
   1. 1953: operation Ajax- with British assistance, overthrows the elected government of Iran.
   2. 1954: operation PBSUCCESS- CIA funded and used US aircraft to help overthrow potentially communist government of Guatemala.
   3. 1957-58: CIA tries to overthrow Indonesia’s government but only succeeds to start a destructive civil war.
7. 1953: Eisenhower oversees end of Korean War by signing an armistice that recognized division of country.
8. 1953: Atoms for Peace- He proposed controlling arms race and using atomic/nuclear power technology for peaceful purposes like power generation in developing areas of world.
9. 1954: He decides not to commit US troops to Vietnam in order to prevent a communist victory over French troops. However, he does make US a protector of newly created non-communist South Vietnam.
10. 1955: Open Skies: He proposed that US and USSR allow surveillance overflights of each other’s territories to reduce fears that either nation was preparing for war. Rejected by Soviets.
11. 1957: Eisenhower Doctrine- US promised to use force to repel any armed communist aggression directed at Middle Eastern countries.
   1. 1959- Landed troops in Lebanon to prevent non-existent communist attack on nation.
12. 1960: Soviets shoot down US spy plane that was flying at high altitudes over USSR. US denied it that it was an American plane, only to be proven wrong when Francis Gary Powers was found alive (he was expected to commit suicide if captured). Ruined upcoming conference between the two nations.
13. Pact-o-mania: in an attempt to shore up a strong set of allies, US aligns with 42 nations around the world.




	Kennedy
	1. Economic and Legislative Issues: Kennedy took office in the depths of the 4th major recession since World War II. Business bankruptcies had reached their highest level since the 1930s, farm incomes had decreased 25 percent since 1951, and 5.5 million Americans were looking for work. To stimulate the economy, Kennedy pursued legislation to lower taxes, protect the unemployed, increase the minimum wage, and energize the business and housing sectors. Kennedy believed these measures would launch an economic boom that would last until the late 1960s.
2. Civil Rights: Kennedy concentrated more on enforcing existent civil rights laws than pass new ones. His policy was to delay sending the civil rights bill until his second term.
3. 1962: James Meredith, a black Mississippian and veteran of eight years in the US Air Force, struggled to enroll at the traditionally white University of Mississippi. Kennedy, through his brother Robert, the attorney general, ordered an escort of federal marshals to accompany Meredith to the campus (it came at a cost of 15 hours of violent riot).
4. 1961: Freedom riders start their efforts to desegregate buses in the South. 
5. 1963: 
   * Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., pressed for more civil rights advancement with an urge- “We can't wait any longer.” 
   * “March on Washington” in August 1963 at which King delivered his “I Have a Dream” speech to an audience of a quarter of a million people.
6. 1963: Followed by confrontation of Alabama governor George C. Wallace over integration of state’s flagship university, and the murder of a NAACP field director, made Kennedy submit the civil rights bill to Congress which became law after his death (Civil Rights Act of 1964).
7. Revenue Act of 1964: Another reform that he proposed and became law after his death also known as Tax Reduction Act, in which individual income tax rates were cut across the board by approximately 20%. In addition to individual income tax cuts, the act slightly reduced corporate tax rates and introduced a minimum standard deduction.
8. New Frontier: (largely unsuccessful) policies included  unemployment benefits, aid provided to cities to improve housing and transportation, funds allocated to continue the construction of a national highway system started under Eisenhower, a water pollution control act passed to protect the country’s rivers and streams, and an agricultural act to raise farmers’ incomes.


	1. 1961–1963: Kennedy saw to diplomatic and military initiatives in Europe, Southeast Asia, Latin America and other regions during considerable Cold War tensions.
2. Kennedy's strategy of flexible response, was aimed to reduce the possibility of war by miscalculation. His administration contributed to the peaceful resolution of the Cuban Missile Crisis and refrained from further escalation of the 1961 Berlin Crisis.
3. 1961, Peace Corps: Executive order 10924- volunteer program run by the US government. The stated mission of the Peace Corps includes providing technical assistance, helping people outside the United States to understand American culture, and helping Americans to understand the cultures of other countries. The work is generally related to social and economic development. Volunteers work with governments, schools, non-profit organizations, non-government organizations, and entrepreneurs in education, business, information technology, agriculture, and the environment. This program has affected the way people of other countries view Americans, how Americans view other countries, and how Americans view their own country.
4. Bay of Pigs: An unsuccessful invasion of Cuba in 1961, which was sponsored by the United States. Its purpose was to overthrow Cuban dictator Fidel Castro. The CIA team took false assumptions and were overwhelmed by Castro’s forces. The cover story collapsed and came at a great cost to Kennedy.Yet his administration continued to press for Castro’s ouster, launching the CIA-backed Operation Mongoose in 1961 to harass and destabilize the Cuban regime.
5. Vienna and Berlin: Kennedy met with Soviet premier Nikita Khrushchev in Vienna in June 1961. Khrushchev renewed his threat to “solve” the long-running Berlin problem, an announcement that in turn forced Kennedy to renew his pledge to respond to such a move with every means at his disposal, including nuclear weapons. In a dramatic move two months later, in mid-August 1961, USSR constructed a wall separating East and West Berlin, providing the Cold War with a physical “Iron Curtain”.
6. Cuban Missile Crisis- in 1962, to protect the Castro government and neutralize the massive American advantage in nuclear weapons, Khrushchev ordered a secret deployment of long-range nuclear missiles to Cuba along with Soviet troops, nuclear arms and weaponries. When aerial imagery revealed this, Kennedy spent days with his top advisors and came to the publicized conclusion that US will do anything to protect itself from the threat. He made a blockade/quarantine around Cuba to stop more aid to them. After several days, the 2 sides reached the deal: Khrushchev would remove the missiles from Cuba, and US would not invade Cuba (along with secretly that US will remove its missiles in Turkey targeted at Soviet Union).
7. The Moon landings: Kennedy was also instrumental in the success of the nation's space program. He vowed to have Americans on the moon by the end of the decade. However he does not live to see the landing in 1969.
8. Limiting nuclear tests: In 1963, Kennedy secured an agreement with Britain and the Soviet Union, to limit the testing of nuclear weapons in space, underwater, and in the earth's atmosphere. It signaled the success of Kennedy's efforts to engage the Soviet Union in constructive negotiations and reduce Cold War tensions.
9. Vietnam War: In 1961, Kennedy sends LBJ, his vice president, to meet South Vietnamese President Ngo Dinh Diem. Johnson promised Diem more aid from US to fight against the communist regime. Kennedy swayed from support to a partnership with Diem in order to defeat communism in South Vietnam.


	Johnson
	1. Cultural context (1963-1968): general acceptance of the idea that government could promote the general welfare effectively.
2. The Great Society themes: 
   * Abundance and liberty for all.
   * An end to poverty.
   * An end to racial injustice.
3. The Great Society laws and programs:
   * Civil Rights Act of 1964: (Kennedy’s proposal) outlawed discrimination and segregation in public places. Authorized Justice Department to prosecute states that discriminate based on race or gender.
   * Voting Rights Act of 1965: outlawed barriers to voting such as literacy tests that whites had used to screen out blacks for long time, and promised to prosecute those who used these illegal tacts- it made 15th Amendment real.
   * Unintended Consequence: 
      * 1964: riots in Harlem and Brooklyn.
      * 1965: riots in Los Angeles; Malcolm X assassinated.
      * 1967: dozens of riots across nation: especially in Detroit and Newark.
      * 1968: Martin Luther King Jr. assassinated; causing more riots across America.
   * War on Poverty: expanded on ideas of New Deal, Fair Deal, and New Frontier. Launched by Equal Opportunity Act of 1964 including many programs-
      * Head Start
      * Job Corps
      * Work-study programs for college students.
      * VISTA- domestic version of Peace Corps.
      * Neighbourhood Youth Corps.
      * Adult job training.
      * CAPS: allowed poor people to devise and administer programs that they believed would help them. Local government hates this idea as it took money and power from them.
   * Office of Economic Opportunity (1964): Johnson’s main war on poverty. It had branches including Head Start, which provided education for pre-schoolers form low-income families, Project Upward Bound, which helped high-schoolers from low-income families attend college, and the Job Corps, which gave job training to high school dropouts.
4. Elementary and Secondary Education Act (1965): reform provided more than $1 billion in federal aid to education, with the greatest amount going to school districts with most poor children. Also required schools receiving money to be racially integrated, guaranteeing that minorities benefited from the reform.
5. Environmental Reform: Johnson focussed on cleaning up environmental damage and to beautify the landscape. His wife Lady Bird Johnson urges him to focus on these goals. Wilderness Act of 1964; Land and Water Conservation Act of 1965; Solid Waste Disposal Act of 1965; Motor Vehicle Air Pollution Control Act of 1965; National Historic Preservation Act of 1966; Endangered Species Protection Act of 1966; National Trails System Act of 1968; Wild and Scenic Rivers Act of 1968; Aircraft Noise Abatement Act of 1968.
6. Medicare and Medicaid: offered government subsidized health care to the elderly and the poor. Johnson also worked in Food Stability programs.
7. Immigration reform- stopped the quota system of the 1920s, opening America to people of all ethnicities who had family connections in US. Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965- abolished National Origins formula established in 1920s. Based immigration on job skills and family ties. 
	1. Vietnam War: This war was viewed as a Sino-Soviet plot to conquer the third world and establish communism everywhere. While Truman and Eisenhower initiated US presence in South Vietnam, Kennedy began assigning special forces personnel in South Vietnam. Johnson was committed to keeping an independent South Vietnam. He embraced “containment theory” and believed the domino effect would take place if South Vietnam was not secured by US. He approved NSAM 273, a national security agency, in 1963, which directed the US government to assist the people and Government of South Vietnam to win their contest against the communist North Vietnam threat. He also transferred covert operations from CIA to the military by approving OPLAN 34A-64 in 1964.
2. Gulf of Tonkin Resolution 1964: (response to reports of US naval vessels attacked in Gulf of Tonkin) Congress granted LBJ right to use force in Vietnam, without further Congressional supervision or approval. Passed without any resistance in Senate or House. 
3. US needed to win the war to protect Japan (America’s keystone of military archipelago in Asia) and had interests in Vietnamese rice (Rice Bowl). Moreover, US needed to protect its own credibility and belief that America had power to overcome any foe (Hubris/Arrogance of Power).
4. During summer and fall in 1964, Johnson explained in a peace platform that he had no intention of escalating the war if it was not necessary. 
5. In April of 1965, Johnson gave another speech “Peace without Conquest” stating that he is not the one to start America’s involvement in Vietnam, but it would be dishonorable to what previous presidents have started if he backs out in the middle of a war against communism. Moreover, Johnson claims that leaving Vietnam to fall under communism would shake the confidence of the world in America.
6. In 1965, Johnson authorized The Rolling Thunder, the sustained bombing of North Vietnam. He also started sending Marine battalions and squadrons to fight in the war (first time US forces sent to fight in mainland Asia after Korean war) in search and destroy missions. By end of his presidency, there were 535,000 troops in Vietnam. 
7. Goal was attrition: producing a High Body Count that would eviscerate the NLF armed forces, forcing them to surrender.
8. 1965: Pacification: non-NLF locals felt desire to be honorary Americans for liberal democracy-to win the hearts and minds.
9. 1966: Destruction of NLF Zones: destroy everything in NLF zones regardless of NLF having initiated an attack. Scorched earth policy.
   1. Operation Cedar Falls (Jan. 1967): attacked the Iron Triangle 22 miles northeast of Saigon.
10. 1966-67: Civilian Operations and Revolutionary Development (CORDS): designed to replicate method of NLF in order to gain control of countryside.
11. 1968-1971: Counter Terror operations: operation Phoenix: captured 28,000 alleged NLF operatives, assassinated 20,000 operatives.
12. The Tet Offensive- In observation of Vietnamese Lunar New Year, January 1968, both sides decided for ceasefire, however, NLF broke the deal.
   1. NLF hit 5 of 6 big cities in the South; 36 of 44 provincial capitals, ¼ of 242 district towns
      1. Saigon- 1,000 NLF troops battled 11,000 US troops to a standstill.
      2. Hue - held by NLF for over a month. Produced massive destruction to the city. 10,000 of 17,000 homes destroyed. Massive civilian casualties. 
   2. Results:
      1. Credibility Gap: US public had been told that victory was imminent and that North Vietnam could not stand a chance against US. However, this surprise attack brought down public faith and confidence in the war.
      2. Great Society programs  were not well-funded due to war expenses. Made public hate the war even more.
13. A televised clip showed the American public the brutality with which a supposedly American ally soldier shot a North Vietnamese innocent kid, made the public back home question the meaning of the war. LBJ’s popularity plumped so much that he did not even run for second term in 1968.
	Nixon
	1. Counterculture- a movement made up of mostly white, middle-class college youths who tries to establish a new culture based on love and peace. While some sought to bring change to society, others wanted to leave it and build their own society. “Turn on, Tune in, Drop out” were the words of counterculture leader Timothy Leary, and also the slogan of the movement. This movement emerged in the 1960s as the group sought to create a new lifestyle including flamboyant dress, rock music, drug use (LSD became popular), and free and independent living. They became known as “hippies”. They wanted a society closer to nature and full of love. They went against the mainstream culture which emphasized on individual, competition, achievement, materialistic attachments and obedience.
2. When Nixon took office unemployment as unusually low level of 3.3% but rising inflation. As a result, Nixon adopted a monetary restraint policy to cool the overheating economy through “gradualism”. However this policy did not show quick results.
3. 1970: Nixon signed the into law a bill to create the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) to prevent on-job injuries and deaths. Same year, due to rising concern for the environment led him to propose Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and a National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), and sign amendments to the 1967 Clean Air Act calling for reductions in automobile emissions and the national testing of air quality, along with 1972 Noise Control Act, the 1972 Marine Mammal Protection Act, the 1973 Endangered Species Act, and the 1974 Safe Drinking Water Act.
4. Nixon also proposed a welfare program with a negative income tax, a favorite of economist Milton Friedman. The purpose of the negative income tax was to provide both a safety net for the poor and a financial incentive for welfare recipients to work. One part of Nixon's welfare program did pass and become a lasting part of the system: Supplemental Security Income (SSI) provides a guaranteed income for elderly and disabled citizens. He also advanced in Medicaid, Medicare, and Social Security. 
5. By end of 1970, unemployment rose to 6 percent!
6. When Nixon delayed federal employees pay raises by six months, because his newly appointed chief economic adviser Arthur Burns said if Nixon failed to hold federal spending under $200 billion, Burns would continue to keep the money supply tight to fight inflation, this led to a strike by nation’s all postal workers. Even though he used the army to keep the postal system going on, he eventually surrendered to the workers demands going against balancing budgets as Burns suggested.
7. By middle of 1971, unemployment reached 6.2% and inflation increased even more.
8. When Nixon entered congressional campaign, he was facing issues like unemployment, inflation, and demands for income policies to control skyrocketing wages and prices. In the fall, Republicans gained two seats in Senate, but lost nine in the House (which Nixon blamed on economy).
9. When Nixon picked Treasury Secretary John Connally to be the chief economic spokesperson, Connally said publicly that the president will not increase federal spending, ask Congress for a tax relief, impose mandatory price and wage controls, or make a wage-price board.
10. 1971: Nixon gathered all of his economic advisers at Camp David and came up with a new economic policy that stood out. The NEP violated most of Nixon's long-held economic principles, but he was not concerned about principles when playing politics, and his turnaround on economic issues was immediately and enormously popular. He signed Executive Order 11615 that held a 90 day wage and price freeze, tax cuts, and temporarily closed the “gold window”, preventing other nations from exchanging American dollars in demand for American gold. (first time US government imposed wage and price controls since WWII). To improve internal trade, Nixon called for 10% import tax. Public approval was overwhelming.
11. An economic boom, which began late in 1971, lasted well into the 1972 campaign, long enough for Nixon to harness its benefits into election that November.
12. Another downturn came in 1973, with expansive monetary policies and a shortage of food (due to massive Soviet purchases of American wheat) to cause inflation. Oil prices were rising and then came the Arab oil boycott in october 1973. Inflation climbed to 12.1% in 1974 plunging the economy into recession. 
13. Watergate: Nixon and his administration tried to cover up Nixon’s misdeeds of forming his own secret police without Congressional authorization (later would become one of main reasons for decision to impeach him). This organization was C.R.E.E.P. that included Attorney General John Marshall, Counsel John Deane, and the ex-CIA and ex-FBI agents in it to do the dirty work were called The Plumbers, 5 of whose members broke into DNC Watergate headquarters in 1972, in order to find about the Pentagon papers that would expose secret actions of earlier presidents. Those 5 members did not receive any instruction to break in the headquarters and were caught in the action and this led to Congress, the media, and the independent prosecutor Archibald Cox who had maximum authority in the case to investigating the scandal. Nixon even asked CIA to tell FBI to stay out of the investigation and just wave it off as a “comedy of errors”. Although the White House saved any information from being exposed till Nixon’s reelection in 1972, he had to use (abuse) executive power to keep the upcoming FBI chief L. Patrick Gray from testifying before Senate Watergate Committee to reveal confirmations that he had allowed White House legal counsel to sit in FBI interview of suspects. After he fired several top government officials, his own attorney general resigned which became known as “The Saturday Massacre”. Nixon, compelled to comply, gave in tapes (evidence) which ended his presidency. He resigned on August 8, 1974. Nixon did not go to jail because Ford pardoned him, for which the latter faced a lot of criticism. 
	1. Vietnamization: replacing US troops with South Vietnamese soldiers. He increased US bombing of North Vietnam. 
2. Nixon urged South Vietnam to deny to make the treaty with president Lyndon B. Johnson in 1968, so that he could make the peace treaty later on. He promised them a better deal if they waited until his presidency. In this way, he committed treason. (this was found out much later)
3. Nixon hoped to ease tensions with Soviet Union and People’s Republic of China. He hoped to get Soviet Union and China on America’s side on the issue of Vietnam War, so as to pressure North Vietnam to end the war or settle with a treaty. He would pay China against Soviet Union, Soviet Union against China, both of them against North Vietnam, and possibly North Vietnam against both of them.
4. The tool of Nixon’s control over what he called "the bureaucracy" was his assistant for national security affairs, Henry Kissinger. The two worked so closely together that they were often referred to as "Nixinger." Together, they used the National Security Council staff to consolidate power in the White House.
5. April 1970: (Madman theory) Nixon has America invade Cambodia (to show enough aggression to use nukes to end war) in order to destroy North Vietnamese supply lines.
6. Opening to China (Détente with China): When Nixon saw the deteriorating relations between Soviet Union and China (since 1950s) at the time of taking office, he sensed opportunity and sent out friendly appealing letters to China. He even referred to them as their official name, The People’s Republic of China. Things advanced when Mao Zedong invited an American table tennis team to China for exhibition matches, and Nixon sent Kissinger to secret meetings with Chinese officials. In February 1972, Nixon’s visit to China was widely televised and viewed. 
7. Détente with Soviet Union: The improving relations with China immediately improved relations with USSR shown by an invitation for Nixon for a meeting with Soviet premier Leonid Brezhnev. In fear of American relations getting better with China, the Soviets tried to better their relations with America. The two men signed to monitor the growth of nuclear weapons. The treaties were—Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty and an Anti-Ballistic Missile treaty— these did not end the arms race, but they set an example for future pacts which sought to reduce arms. Nixon also signed agreements on science, space, and trade.
8. 1972: After Nixon’s trip to USSR in 1972, America has signed S.A.L.T. with Soviet Union that limited growth (not reduction) of nuclear arsenals. It was the first Soviet-American treaty of Cold War.
9. Berlin Agreement: 1972: stabilized divided Germany and increased interactions between West Berlin and East Berlin.
10. January 1973: Peace agreement is reached between US, North Vietnam, South Vietnam, and the National Liberation Front. Most US troops leave Vietnam.
11. November 1973: Congress passes War Powers Act, limiting the ability of presidents to use military power without getting approval from Congress.
12. April 1975: North Vietnam defeats South Vietnam in a six-week-long attack, uniting the nation under communist rule.
13. Kissinger and Shuttle Diplomacy: Kissinger went back and forth between the Arabs and Israelis during and after the Yom-Kippur war to arrange lasting peace but only had limited success. Later on, OPEC embargoes on US would increase the oil price by 387%.
	Ford
	1. Pardon to Richard Nixon- September 8, 1974, exactly one month after taking office, Ford reopened old wounds (after saying “Our long national nightmare is over”) when he granted a full pardon for any crimes Nixon had committed when he was president. He claimed to do so because it would look wrong and shameful to execute a trial against an ex-president which could also bring up mixed emotions that could prevent the nation from moving forward. However, this decision faced a tremendous amount of anger and criticism, with people even questioning his judgement to pardon Nixon so soon after taking office. On top of that, his press secretary resigned in protest of the decision. Ford’s popularity plummeted.
2. October 17, 1974: Ford appeared publicly before the Hungate Committee (formed to investigate the pardon), and denied having promised a pardon or having made a deal with the ex-president or his staff.
3. White House Cabinet- Ford decided to temporarily keep Nixon’s administration and gradually replace them with his own members. After six months of staying in Ford’s administration, the president replaced chief of staff Alexander Haig with commander of NATO, Donald Rumsfeld. However, Ford did keep some of Nixon’s appointed key officials such as Roy Ash as head of the Office of Management and Budget and Kenneth Cole as head of the Domestic Council. Unfortunately for Ford, sometimes, his staff and Nixon’s staff clashed.
4. Ford also nominated Nelson Rockefeller, former governor of New York to fill the vacant office of vice president (he did not chose George H. W. Bush upon learning that he accepted money from Nixon slush fund during Senate campaign). Even though conservative Republicans were not pleased with Rockefeller’s selection, they voted for him, and his nominations passed both in House and Senate.
5. Difficulties in Congress: Ford expected him to have significant influence in Congress after serving for long time in House of Representatives. However, apart from pardoning Nixon to begin his problems, in 1974 midterm elections coming a few months after the pardon, Democrats won majority in Congress with 43 seats in House and 61 seats in Senate. He faced a strong democratic opposition in the Congress. 
6. Stagflation- a key domestic issue, the nation’s economy was deteriorating. Ford had to face unemployment, inflation, and energy crisis. During his presidency, inflation and unemployment (foreign competition slowed economic growth and job creation) rose to heights unmatched by any post-WWII year. This was all related to the increasing price of oil. American consumption of oil grew during the 1960s and 1970s, which was being met by buying oil from Middle East (by 1974, 35% oil came from overseas). But in 1973, OPEC issued embargoes against America in protest of Nixon supporting Israel in Yom-Kippur war. Crude oil prices increased tenfold of pre-1973 prices and gas prices doubled. This phenomenon of economic crisis became known as Stagflation.
7. October 1974- Ford proposed tax hike to cut federal spending. He also asked the public to wear WIN (Whip Inflation Now) buttons in hope to acquire public support. But the spending cut was unlikely because the party needed to spend money for campaign for midterm elections. He faced criticism for not working to reduce unemployment which rose to 6.5% by November.
8. January 1975- Ford proposed a tax cut of $16 billion to restart economy. Even after democratic criticism, Congress passed a tax cut of more than $22 billion but raised spending on government programs. For rest of his term, Ford fought a war against Congress’s intentions of additional governmental expenditures by vetoing the bills. In his proposal, Ford also asked for tariff on oil imports, more tax on domestic oil manufacturers, and end of price control on domestic oil. 
9. Revenue Readjustment Act of 1975: another tax cut of $9 billion and affirmation that Congress would limit spending.
10. After much arguing with Congress in 1975, Ford made a deal with Congress in December in an energy bill, that allowed a 12% reduction in domestic oil prices in return for authority to control domestic oil prices for 40 month period. 
11. By 1976, economy had begun to recover. Consumer price index dropped from 9.1% in 1975 to 5.8% in 1976. By January 1977, unemployment dropped to 7.4%, down from 9%. 
12. Busing segregation- Busing segregation was existent in early and mid-1970s, especially in Boston. In 1974, a Boston judge ordered immediate integration of segregated schools. In the community of Boston, this was a spark of an upcoming disaster. Riots broke out following the order. Democrats called on Ford to intervene. However, Ford chose not to get involved in the hot issue. He was pro-integration but against busing because he believed that federal government can only segregation in buses by law, not by circumstance. Although he was ready to use military power if situations got worse, it never came to that for him, showing that Ford administration was more willing for a less activist federal government and letting local and state government handle issues.
13. When New York City went bankrupt in 1975, Ford denied federal aid despite the advice of his vice president Rockefeller. When the state government announced their plan the same year to put the city on a more stable financial ground, Ford suddenly granted $2.3 billion in aid. Although he explained his new decision as appropriate by giving the aid when the local government made a more stable plan, his real reason was to satisfy Senator James Buckley of New York, whose vote was crucial to him in the upcoming election. However, Republicans saw the aid as Ford swaying away from conservative principles.
14. Ford and his wife were fierce supporters of ERA (Equal Rights Amendment), a proposed ratification that had been submitted in 1972. It was designed to ensure equal rights of every citizen regardless of gender. However, ERA fails to win ratification due to lack of state legislators. 
15. Ford’s position on abortion was to let each of the 50 states decide it for themselves. This was also his opinion when he was a House minority leader when he opposed the 1973 Supreme Court case of Roe v.s Wade. 
16. CIA Director William Colby put together a  report of all of CIA’s operations during Nixon’s presidency. Seymour Hersh, a investigative journalist, made the report public in December 1974. Because of growing pressure from public to investigate the CIA, Ford created the Rockefeller Commission. The Rockefeller Commission marked the first time that a presidential commission was made to investigate the national security apparatus. The Commission's report, submitted in June 1975, mostly defended the CIA, although it noted that "the CIA has engaged in some activities that should be criticized and not permitted to happen again." The press criticized the commission for not including the organization’s assassination plots.
	1. Cold War- Ford continued the détente policies with China and Soviet Union. The profitable visit of Nixon to China in 1972 was bolstered by Ford’s visit in December 1975. Even though trade agreements collapsed between America and Soviet Union, Ford continued Strategic Arms Limitation Talks (SALT) with Soviet Union leader Leonid Brezhnev. Ford met Brezhnev at the November 1974 Vladivostok Summit, where the two leaders agreed for another SALT treaty. However, opponents of detente, led by Senator Henry Jackson, opposed Senate consideration of the treaty until after Ford left office. Ford and Brezhnev met again in July 1975 at the Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe. At that conference, US, Canada, and most European countries signed the Helsinki Accords, in which the signers agreed to uphold human rights and the sovereignty of the parties to the accords. The talks of SALT II were continued in Carter administration.
2. Vietnam- American offensive operations against North Vietnam ended with Paris Peace Accords, signed in January, 1973. The accords declared a ceasefire across North and South Vietnam, and required the release of American prisoners of war. The agreement guaranteed the territorial independence of Vietnam and, like the Geneva Conference of 1954, called for national elections in the North and South. The Accords allowed a 60 day period for the total withdrawal of U.S. forces. The accords had been negotiated by Kissinger and North Vietnamese military rulers.
3. In December 1974, North Vietnamese forces attacked South Vietnam. Ford’s request from Congress to aid $722 million to retaliate was denied, however evacuation aid was granted. President Thieu of South Vietnam resigned in April 1975, blaming lack of US support for the fall of Saigon, the capital. Two days later, Ford announced, in a speech at Tulane University, that Vietnam war is over for America.
4. Ford ordered the evacuation of all US personnels and anyone trying to escape communist forces. About forty thousand Americans and South Vietnamese were evacuated by plane. In the final Operation Frequent Wind, Air American and military helicopters took evacuees to US navy ships in a 24 hour period from April 29-30, 1975. Saigon fell right after that, and the Vietnam war, being waged since 1950s, came to an end. Many of the Vietnamese evacuees were allowed to enter the US under the Indochina Migration and Refugee Assistance Act. The 1975 Act gave $455 million toward the costs of settlement of Indochinese refugees. Ford placed embargoes on the united communist Vietnam, and blocked Vietnam’s involvement in United Nations.
5. Mayaguez incident: May 1975, after the fall of Saigon and the Khmer Rouge conquest of Cambodia, Cambodians seized the American merchant ship Mayaguez in international waters. Ford sent Marines to rescue the crew, but the Marines landed on the wrong island and met resistance while, unknown to the U.S., the Mayaguez sailors were being released. In the operation, two military helicopters carrying the Marines were shot down, and 41 U.S. servicemen were killed and 50 wounded while approximately 60 Khmer Rouge soldiers were killed. Despite the American losses, the operation was seen as a success in the US and Ford enjoyed a boost in his approval ratings, at the expense of others’ lives.
6. Axe Murder incident in Panmunjom- this village is situated in a demilitarized zone between the two Koreas. For some time by then, seeing US difficulties in Vietnam, North Korea was trying to force America to remove its troops from South Korea. In August 1976, North Korean forces killed two US officers and injured South Korean guards who were engaged in cutting a tree in village’s Joint Security Area. North Korean leader Kim Il-sung used this as an opportunity to present this as American aggression and asked that US remove its forces from South Korea, at a conference in the Non-Aligned Nations. Kissinger said that US would seem weak if they did not take action, and Ford agreed with that. After considering some options, the Ford administration decided that it was necessary to respond with a huge show of force. A large number of ground forces went to cut down the tree, while at the same time the air force was deployed, which included B-52 bomber flights over the village. The North Korean government backed down and later officially apologized.
7. Middle East- The Cyprus dispute turned into a crisis with the Turkish invasion of Cyprus, causing extreme strain within the NATO alliance. Turkey had invaded Cyprus following the Greek backed 1974 Cypriot coup d'état military group. The dispute put the US in a difficult position as both Greece and Turkey were members of NATO. When Greece pulled itself out from NATO military structure, Ford vetoed a Congress bill to cut Turkish aides in fear of tampering US-Turkish relations. He vetoed a second bill however a compromise was reached to continue aid for some time (Turkish relations were disrupted until 1978). 
8. During the Yom-Kippur war in the Arab-Israeli conflict, Kissinger’s shuttle diplomacy was showing little progress. In 1973, Egypt and Syria launched a joint surprise attack against Israel, intending to recapture the land lost in the Six-Day War of 1967, but lost to the Israeli forces.
9. March 1975- Ford cabled the Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, that America is disappointed in the failure of Israel to make negotiations, and so America, in order to protect its interests and maintain its policy in the region, will notify [Rabin] of their decision. 
10. Reassessment - In March, Ford announced this new policy that will stop further aid to Israel. For 6 months between March and September 1975, America made no new negotiations with Israel. However on May 21, 76 Senators wrote a letter to Ford asking him to comply with Israel’s demand of $2.59 billion for military aid. It was, since the 1974 ban on arms to Turkey, the second major congressional intrusion upon the President's foreign policy decisions. After much argument, the Sinai Interim Agreement (Sinai II) between Egypt and Israel was formally signed.
11. Angola- civil war broke out in Angola after gaining independence from Portugal in 1975. The CIA gave aid to UNITA and FNLA groups to fight against the Soviet Union and Cuban backed MPLA. When Congress learned of this aid, it cut it off. Congress’s role in ending the CIA presence showed the legislative branch’s increasing influence in foreign affairs.
12. After Carnation Revolution, Portugal withdrew from East Timor. Then, Indonesia invaded East Timor when it declared its independence from Portugal. A policy of arms sales to the Suharto regime began in 1975, under Ford. 90% of Indonesian weapons were provided by US in their invasion. Ford's military aid came to about $30 million annually to Indonesia, and arms sales increased exponentially under president Carter which continued until 1999.
	Carter
	1. 1976 campaign- Carter wins 50% to Ford 48%. Carter was a naval officer, businessman, and the governor of Georgia. He wins over Ford because the American public was still bitter about Ford’s pardon to Nixon, and Carter was an anti-Nixon. He was honest and humble. People thought of him as an uncorrupt government official and liked the idea that he was deeply religious and a moral person.
2. Economic problem #1 Stagflation due to Energy Crisis: it is important to note that Carter did not create, but inherited this problem which started under Nixon and accelerated under Ford.
   * Increased spending from Vietnam War and Great Society programs led to inflation in which the value of the dollar went critically down.
   * The high cost o f oil and gas due to OPEC oil embargo on US (because US supported Israel in Yom-Kippur war) led to stagnation in which economic growth diminished and gas prices reached the sky.
   * This problem led to consumers, regular American’s day to day life hurting. People now spent most of their money on gas (because most Americans needed to drive to get from one place to another) and so that money not spent on other businesses or consumption of goods not related to driving. The economy suffered greatly.
3. The economy was a both sided cliff; if money was inserted to help stagnation, inflation would flare up, and if money was pulled out to help inflation, the stagnating economy would suffer.
4. Carter decided that Americans needed to sacrifice their comfort for once in order to stabilize the economy. He decided to treat inflation first by taking our money, then treat stagnation by lowering income taxes and the dollar stabilizes. The public hated this technique for they were not patient or ready to suffer in order to better the economy.
5. May 10, 1979, the House voted against giving Carter authority to produce a standby gas rationing plan. The following day, Carter delivered remarks in the Oval Office describing himself as shocked and embarrassed for the American government due to the vote. Then House Republicans labeled his remarks as unfit for a President to say in public, after which Carter called on the public to believe in his programs. New York Times described this as a crisis of confidence between Congress and the President.
6. July 1979: Carter’s “Crisis of Confidence” speech tried to address the feelings of helplessness that many Americans felt. People found it very pessimistic. It became known as the “malaise” speech, though he never used that word.
7. Carter surrounded himself with loyal but honest Georgia aides and never developed good relations with Congress.
8. Health care and welfare- Proposals contemplated by the Carter administration include a minimum income, a federal job guarantee for the unemployed, a negative income tax, and direct cash payments to aid recipients. 
9. In reaction to the energy crisis and growing concerns over air pollution, Carter signed the National Energy Act (NEA) and the Public Utilities Regulatory Policy Act (PURPA). The purpose of these laws was to encourage energy conservation and the development of national energy resources, including renewables such as wind and solar energy. He also installed a 32-panel solar power heating system on the White House roof in June 1979 to promote the use of solar energy.
10. In October 1979, Carter signed the Department of Education Organization Act into law, establishing the United States Department of Education. During his tenure, the percentage of nondefense dollars spent on education was doubled. Another measure passed during the Carter presidency, the Child Nutrition Amendments Act of 1978, introduced a national income standard for program eligibility based on income standards prescribed for reduced-price school lunches.
	1. September 1977- Carter signed two treaties with Panama that 1) restored Panama’s control over the canal zone (met with discontent back home) and 2) promised to gradually hand over operating control of the Canal.
2. A quest for peace in middle east:
   1. Carter invited Egypt’s Anwar Sadat and Israel’s Menachem Begin to US to create a framework for lasting peace.
   2. September 1978: Camp David Accords- Egypt and Israel sign a peace treaty, but Sadat is assassinated as a result and the issue remained unresolved. 
3. January 1978: A revolution in Iran topples the pro-American leader(the Shah) and results in creation of an Islamic Republic led by Ayatollah Khomeini. 
   1. Carter angered Iranians by allowing the Shah to come to US for cancer treatment,
   2. Angered, the Iranians storm US embassy and take 58 hostages, holding them captive for rest of Carter’s term. Carter ordered a failed military attempt to rescue the hostages; the failure makes him seem ineffective and brought down American confidence.
4. Cold War resulmes (the decline of détente)- 
   1. USSR cracked down on dissidents and forbade immigration of Jews to Israel. Carter emphasized human rights in his policy and made tensions with Soviets. 
   2. December 1979-USSR invaded Afghanistan- US feared Soviets wanted to control oil in the Persian Gulf.
   3. Carter withdrew SALT II treaty, stopped exports of grain to USSR resumed registration for the draft, and boycotted the 1980 Moscow Olympics.
   4. June 1979- SALT II treaty (failed)- lowered ceiling on number of nuclear missiles each country could have.
   5. Soviet invasion of Afghanistan made Carter to abandon SALT II and build new MX missiles (these were mov=bile and moved across rail lines) and deploy Trident nuclear submarines with missile capacity. This led to new arms race.
   6. January 1980- The Carter Doctrine- Carter vows to fight to protect vital oil supplies in Persian Gulf area even if it took arming and siding with radicals called Mujahideen, and giving birth to groups like ISIS, Taliban, and Al-Qaeda (which ironically attack US with the same weapons it was provided with to fight USSR).
5. Détente with China - Continuing a rapprochement begun during the Nixon administration, Carter sought closer relations with the People's Republic of China (PRC). The two countries increasingly collaborated against the Soviet Union, and the Carter administration tacitly consented to the Chinese invasion of Vietnam. In 1979, Carter extended formal diplomatic recognition to the PRC for the first time. This decision led to a boom in trade between the United States and the PRC, which was pursuing economic reforms under the leadership of Deng Xiaoping. After the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, Carter allowed the sale of military supplies to China and began negotiations to share military intelligence.
6. South Korea- One of Carter's first acts was to order the withdrawal of troops from South Korea. South Korea and Japan both protested the move, as did many members of Congress, the military, and the State Department. Carter believed that the soldiers could be put to better use in Western Europe, but opponents of the withdrawal feared that North Korea would invade South Korea in the aftermath of the withdrawal. After a strong backlash, Carter delayed the withdrawal, and ultimately only a fraction of the U.S. forces left South Korea.
7. Indonesian occupation of East Timor-The Carter administration resumed and dramatically increased arms sales to the Indonesian Suharto government during its occupation of East Timor. American arms sales to the Suharto regime averaged about $60 million annually during Carter's term, more than double the figure of Ford's yearly sales.
	Reagan
	1. Reagan appealed more to the American public than Carter. He promised to bring the country out of the economic mess and he did not point out problems in his speeches. Moreover, as soon as Reagan took office, the Iranians released the American hostages, to show that Carter would have never been able to do that.
2. Reagan declared that "government is not the solution to our problem; government is the problem." on the issue of national economic crisis. Reagan’s attack on Carter’s economic record persuaded blue collar voters to vote for him.
3. “Reaganomics” and taxation: Reagan implemented economic policies based on supply-side economics, advocating a laissez-faire economy and free-market policy. He was influenced by new economists such as Arthur Laffer, who rejected the more popular methods of Keynesian economists. Reagan relied on Laffer and other economists to argue that tax cuts would reduce inflation. Upon taking office, Reagan's first priority was the passage of a bill that would cut federal income tax rates. The Economic Recovery Tax Act of 1981, signed into law in July 1981, cut the top marginal tax rate from 70% to 50% and lowered the estate tax and the corporate tax.
4. Reagan Recession- Even before Reagan's economic program was signed into law, the Federal Reserve identified the weak monetary policies that had led to what economists called "The Great Inflation" of the 1970s as Public Enemy No. 1. When the Federal Reserve under Paul Volcker tightened interest rates to treat inflation, the economy plunged into recession and Reagan's popularity dipped with it. Given the monetary circumstances Reagan inherited, it is unlikely that a recession could have been avoided. But the Reagan tax bill worsened the deficit. Reagan's prediction that the tax cuts would increase revenues missed the mark, at least during the 1981-82 recession. The 1982 budget deficit was $113 billion—$30 billion more than when Carter left office. Unemployment rose to 11 percent and Reagan’s popularity naturally collapsed.
5. Reagan believed that tight interests rates would eventually work out. Over time, despite the costs of the recession, the Fed's policies did work. Tight money and reduced inflation started the boom that began in 1983 and was still on when Reagan left the White House in 1989.
6. 1982: After leveling out the economy, Reagan supported the Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act (TEFRA), a measure presented as a tax reform bill that was also a tax increase, partly because he feared the national debt will increase too much. Congress passed TEFRA, and Reagan signed it into law. In 1984, he supported another tax increase, again packaged as reform. Since deficits continued to be an issue, Reagan signed another bill that raised taxes, the Deficit Reduction Act of 1984. After failing in an aborted attempt to reduce some Social Security benefits, Reagan teamed with House Speaker Tip O'Neill to bring down Social Security costs under control. Reagan appointed a commission, headed by Alan Greenspan, that came up with a remarkable compromise that slightly raised the retirement age, boosted payroll taxes, and taxed the benefits of high-end recipients for the first time.
7. Civil Rights issues- 1982: Reagan made ill-considered remarks about Martin Luther King, Jr., as Congress debated making King's birthday a national holiday. The same year the Reagan administration supported a lawsuit brought by University of South Carolina against the Internal Revenue Service over its long-standing policy of denying tax breaks to segregated schools. The policy originated in 1970 in an effort to combat the development of segregated private schools, which had become popular among whites.
8. Counselor Ed Meese and Attorney General William Smith persuaded Reagan to instruct the Justice Dep. to remove its support for IRS, they failed to see the consequences. Many Americans, black and white, protested the administration's actions. Reagan retracted and supported legislation to maintain existing policies. While this legislation failed to grow in Congress, the Supreme Court ruled against Bob Jones University and in favor of the IRS.
9. Tax Reform Act of 1986: The act simplified the tax code by reducing the number of tax brackets (people who were taxed) and reducing a number of tax breaks (people who received concession). The top rate was dropped to 28%, but capital gains taxes were increased on those with the highest incomes from 20% to 28%. The net result was the removal of six million poor Americans from the income tax roll and a reduction of income tax liability at all income levels.
10. Reagan was determined to decrease government spending and roll back or dismantle Great Society programs such as Medicaid and the Office of Economic Opportunity. Reagan cut the budgets of non-military programs including food stamps, federal education programs and the EPA. 
11. Social Security Amendments of 1983, which received bipartisan support focussed on rejecting Social Security privatization and other changes to the program, but recommended expanding the Social Security base ( including exempt federal and nonprofit employees), raising Social Security taxes, and reducing some payments.
12. New Federalism- sought to shift the responsibility for most social programs to state governments, but found little support in Congress. The federal budget, along with the national as a whole, also suffered from the early 1980s recession. From 1981 to 1989, the national debt rose from $998 billion to $2.857 trillion.
13. “Black Monday”: successor of Paul Volcker, Alan Greenspan attempted to further attack inflation by increasing interest rates even higher setting off a stock market crash in October 1987 (stabilized in the following weeks). 
14. Immigration Reform and Control Act 1986- The act made it illegal to knowingly hire or recruit illegal immigrants, required employers to verify to their employees' immigration status, and granted amnesty to approximately three million illegal immigrants who entered US.
15. Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1986- part of Reagan’s “war on drugs”, this act granted $1.7 billion to fight drugs, and ensured a mandatory minimum penalty for drug offenses. Reagan also signed the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988, which further increased criminal penalties for drug use and established the Office of National Drug Control Policy.
16. December, 1981, Reagan signed Executive Order 12333. This presidential order broadened the power of the government's intelligence community; mandated rules for spying on United States citizens, permanent residents, and on anyone within the United States.
	1. Reagan was unattentive and “lazy” when it came to foreign affairs. He did not give clear orders or instructions to his staff. This resulted in policy being set by staffers around Reagan with different views and agendas. White House aide James Connon, who interviewed about 20 people from the White House including senior officials concluded that Reagan was only interested in watching movies and television, not his work.
2. Escalation for Cold war- Reagan ordered a massive buildup of the United States Armed Forces and implemented new policies towards the Soviet Union: reviving the B-1 Lancer program that had been canceled by the Carter administration, and producing the MX missile. In response to Soviet deployment of the SS-20, Reagan oversaw NATO's deployment of the Pershing missile in West Germany. Together with the United Kingdom's prime minister Margaret Thatcher, Reagan denounced the Soviet Union in ideological terms. In a speech to the National Association of Evangelicals on March, 1983, Reagan called the Soviet Union "an evil empire." Despite this, the Reagan administration started START with Soviet Union. Unlike the SALT treaties of the 1970s, the proposed START treaty would require both sides to reduce their nuclear arsenals, as opposed to setting upper limits.
3. March 1983: Reagan introduced the Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI), a defense protect that would have used ground and space-based systems to protect the US from attack by nuclear ballistic missiles. Reagan believed that this defense shield could make nuclear war impossible. However due to concerns about cost and effectiveness, it was canceled in 1993.
4. September 1983: Soviet Union shot down Korean Air Lines Flight 007 after it flew through Soviet airspace. This was in anger over the development of SDI (which they saw as a violation of Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty) by US and afterwards Soviet Union broke arms control talks with US.
5. Reagan Doctrine- Reagan administration provided aid to anti-communist resistance movements in an effort to push back Soviet backed communist governments in Africa, Asia, and Latin America. Reagan sent the CIA's Special Activities Division to Afghanistan and Pakistan, where CIA was crucial in training, equipping, and leading Mujahideen forces against the Soviet Army in the Soviet Afghan War. By 1987, the US was sending over $600 million a year, as well as weapons and combat expertise to Afghanistan.
6. Central America- Reagan and his foreign policy team were concerned about the potential influence of Cuba on countries such as Grenada, Nicaragua, and El Salvador. To counteract the influence of Cuba, Reagan launched the Caribbean Basin Initiative, an economic program designed to aid countries opposed to Communism.
7. Invasion of Grenada in 1983- Reagan justified the invasion as necessary in accusations that Cuba posed as a threat to US and the illegal overthrow and execution of Grenadian Prime Minister. The invasion was poorly carried out, for it took over 10,000 US forces 8 days of fighting, suffering 19 fatalities and 116 injuries, fighting against several hundred lightly armed policemen and construction workers.
8. Middle East- Reagan sent US Marines into Lebanon to maintain peace after Israel continued to inflict violence in its invasion of Lebanon even after Israel, PLO, and Syria agreed to withdraw forces from Lebanon. In late 1983, two bombings killed 241 American soldiers and 58 French soldiers. The international peacekeeping force was withdrawn from Lebanon in 1984. A group known as Hezbollah began to take American hostages by 1985. Meanwhile the defense department back home made the Powell Doctrine stating US will use military intervention as a last resort. 
9. Iran-Contra scandal- Reagan administration authorized CIA Director William J. Casey to arm the right-wing Contras (US backed and funded right-wing rebel groups against left-wing Sandinistas) early in his tenure. Boland Amendment 1982: made by Congress, prohibited CIA and defense department from aiding the Contras. When Hezbollah, a paramilitary Iran backed group, captured seven Americans as hostages, Reagan sold over 2000 missiles to Iran without informing Congress in hope that the nation would pressure Hezbollah to release the hostages. The money from the missiles was given in aid to the Contras- another violation of law. Hezbollah released four but captured 6 more Americans. The missile transactions became public in October 1986 after which Reagan appointed Tower Commision to investigate them. The Commission’s report in early 1987 confirmed the administration’s arms deal with Contras and Iran, going against the arms embargo on Iran. It brought down public faith and trust in Reagan. Even though Reagan broke the law, he was given a “pass” by the Congress and not impeached.
10. 1985: Geneva Summit- good attitudes between Reagan and Gorbachev.
   1. 1986- Rekjavik: led to an agreement on nukes, but talks broke down over SDI. Reagan was not ready to give up the program even though it was inefficient. The two leaders briefly discussed on destroying all US and Soviet nuclear weapons.
11. End of Cold war- Soviet Union was under unstable leadership until Mikhail Gorbachev came to power in 1985. Although the Soviet Union had not accelerated military spending during Reagan's military buildup, their large military expenses, in combination with collectivized agriculture and inefficient manufacturing, were a heavy burden for the Soviet economy. Gorbachev was much less radical than his predecessors. In 1986, he introduced his two reforms of perestroika and glasnost, which would change the political and economic conditions of the Soviet Union. He also realized that in order to reduce military spending and prevent nuclear war, he needed to restart negotiations with US. Reagan was more than eager for this change. He hoped that more trade and commerce with Soviet Union would make democracy stronger and dissolve and end communism. At the 1987 summit in Washington, Reagan and Gorbachev signed the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty (INF Treaty), in which both parties agreed to significant cuts in their respective nuclear arsenals. This treaty boosted Reagan’s popularity in aftermath of Iran-Contra affair. They also discussed the potential strategic arms treaty, START, but SDI continued to be a major point of disagreement.
12. 1988- Moscow- good relations. Eased Cold War tensions. Openness led to an end of communism! Soviets pulled out of Afghanistan.


	Bush I
	1. Monetary policy- At $220 billion in 1990, the deficit had grown to three times its size since 1980. The government did not have the revenues for any large, domestic ventures. Bush had not campaigned on any specific domestic programs, and he continued to stress "a limited agenda," that included volunteerism, education reform, and anti-drug efforts. Since he pledged during the campaign not to raise taxes, he found himself in the difficult position in trying to balance the budget and reduce the deficit without imposing additional taxes on the public. He also had a Congress controlled by the Democrats. While Republicans favored in cutting domestic spending, the Democrats wanted to raise taxes on the richest Americans. The fiscal vision was further damaged by the relatively mild recession of the early 1990s, which began in 1990. By 1992, interest and inflation rates were the lowest in years, but by midyear the unemployment rate reached 7.8% while 14.2% lived in poverty.
2. OBRA-90: Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990- raised the top income tax bracket from 28% to 31%. It included cuts to domestic spending. This law formed the groundwork for the budget surplus of late 1990s.
3. Rodney King Riot 1992: The unrest began in South Central Los Angeles in late April, after a trial jury acquitted four officers of the Los Angeles Police Department for usage of excessive force in the arrest and beating of Rodney King, which had been videotaped and widely viewed in TV broadcasts. Thousands of people rioted over a 6 day period following the announcement of the verdict. Widespread looting, assault, and murder occurred in the riots, and estimates of property damage were over $1 billion. With local police overwhelmed in controlling the situation, Governor Wilson sent in the California Army National Guard, and President Bush sent the 7th Infantry Division and the 1st Marine Division. After that, order and was restored throughout L.A. County, but 63 people were killed, 2383 people were injured, and more than 12,000 were arrested.
4. Civil Rights- Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990: created legal protections against discrimination for those with disabilities. The act also required that employers and public accommodations to make "reasonable accommodations" for the disabled. Bush vetoed the Civil Rights Act of 1990, which was intended to help women and minorities prove discrimination in hiring. However, he signed the law in 1991, when Congress re-introduced it.
5. Environment- Bush authorized the Clean Air Act. The legislation sought to treat acid rain by requiring decreased emissions of chemicals such as sulfur dioxide. He also signed the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 in response to the Exxon Valdez oil spill. However, he was criticized for his opposition to stricter auto-mileage standards.
6. “Thousand points of light”- Bush used this phrase to incite confidence and uplifted spirits in Americans. This became a volunteer program nonprofit organization.
7. Immigration Act of 1990- made a 40% increase in legal immigration to the US. The bill more than doubled the number of visas given to immigrants on the basis of job skills, and advocates of the bill stated that it would help fill projected labor shortages for various jobs.
8. Bush became a member of the National Rifle Association in 1988 and had campaigned as a "pro-gun" candidate with the NRA's approval during the 1988 election. In March 1989, he placed a temporary ban on the import of certain semi automatic rifles. 
9. Educational Excellence Act of 1989- Bush proposed this act which was supposed to have rewarded high achieving high school students for federal grants. However, due to lack of Republican support, it did not pass in Congress.
10. Taxes- Bush raised taxes to $133 billion in 1992. He promised in 1988, “Read my lips, No new Taxes!!”. Bush sided with Democrats for new taxes and increases domestic spending. Conservatives were outraged, and Bush’s popularity declined. He seemed to betray Reaganomics, something the Republicans favored. When his policies did not prevent economic recession (Bush recession), he became unpopular among people. The popularity he gained from Persian Gulf War began to crumble.
	1. Panama- Manuel Noriega was suspected of being a spy for Fidel Castro, who Reagan failed to remove. In May 1989, Panama held democratic elections, in which Guillermo Endara was elected president; but results were then nullified by Noriega's government. Bush sent in 2000 troops to do regular military exercises in Panama. Bush then removed an embassy and ambassador from the country, and sent more troops to Panama to pave the way for another invasion. Noriega suppressed the military coup attempt and massive protests in Panama against him, but after a U.S. serviceman was shot by Panamanian forces in December 1989, Bush ordered 24,000 troops into the country with an objective of removing Noriega from power; "Operation Just Cause" was a large-scale American military operation. The army successfully gained control, and Endara took power.
2. End of Cold War- December 1989, just after the fall of the Berlin Wall, Bush met with Gorbachev in a conference on the Mediterranean island of Malta. The administration had been under intense pressure to meet with the Soviets expecting something big to happen. After Gorbachev stated clearly that Soviet Union would never start a “hot war” against US, and that it wants to pursue cooperation with US, Bush was certain that the fall of communist empires in Poland, Hungary, Czechoslovakia, Bulgaria and Romania were sign of Soviet Union’s weakness. For the remainder of his term, he worked with Gorbachev believing that the Soviet leader was the key to peacefully ending the Soviet domination Eastern Europe.
3. Bush pushed for German reunification alongside West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl. Gorbachev resisted the idea of a reunified Germany, especially if it became part of NATO. After negotiations among Bush, Gorbachev, and Kohl, Gorbachev agreed to allow a reunified Germany that would also be a member of NATO. Gorbachev also agreed to pull Soviet troops out of Germany. Germany was reunified in October 1990. 
4. Dissolution of Soviet Union- Soviet Union was reluctant to give up Lithuania to its independence demands in 1990, as that would significantly reduce its power. Since Bush did not want to hinder relations with Gorbachev in fear of Soviet Union backing off from German reunion, he mildly opposed Soviet occupation and warned in his labeled “Chicken Kiev” speech against “suicidal nationalism”.
5. July 1991, the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START I) was signed by Bush and Gorbachev in Moscow. The treaty took nine years in the making and was the first major arms agreement since the signing of the Intermediate Range Nuclear Forces Treaty by Reagan and Gorbachev in 1987. The agreements in START would reduce the strategic nuclear weapons of the United States and the USSR by about 35% over seven years, and the Soviet Union's land based intercontinental ballistic missiles would be cut by 50%. Bush described START as "a significant step forward in dispelling half a century of mistrust".
6. The Soviet Union dissolved in December 1991, marking the end of the Cold War. Fifteen new states emerged from the Soviet Union, of which Russia was the largest and most populous. Bush and Russian President Boris Yeltsin met in February 1992, declaring a new era of friendship.
7. China- in the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989 students and other individuals protested in favor of democracy and intellectual freedom. June 1989, the People’s Liberation Army violently suppressed a demonstration in Beijing, after which US in response imposed economic sanctions and cut military aides.
8. Nicaragua- Reagan had intended to overthrow socialist Daniel Ortega by aiding the right-wing Contra, resulting in Iran-Contra affair. Bush and Secretary of State Baker, along with support from Congress, cut aides to Contras in promise from Ortega that he will hold free elections in 1990.
9. When Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait in 1990, and Iraq did not withdraw from Kuwait as US asked, Bush’s 5 main points gathered support and green light from Congress to use military force. In 1991, the allied forces started their air and ground attacks, effectively pushing back Iraqi forces in 100 hours, after which Bush stopped the offensive.
10. NAFTA- 1987, US and Canada reached a free trade agreement that removed tariffs between them. The trade agreement would generate economic resources necessary to enable Mexico's government to overcome problems of funding and enforcement of its labor laws. 
11. Operation Desert Shield- August, 1990: Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait. Iraq owed billion to Kuwait for its support in the Iran-Iraq war. Kuwait produced 10% of world’s oil and bordered Saudi Arabia, which made 30% of world’s oil. US organized 30 nations to protect Saudi Arabia and liberate Kuwait. Bush commanded 690,000 troops, 540,000 of which were US soldiers. 
12. Desert Storm- US had supported Iraq in Iran-Iraq war. It had helped build Iraq into 4th largest army in the world.  The Coalition- Troops were sent in the gulf from US, Saudi Arabia, France, UK, Kuwait, Egypt, Pakistan and other countries. Ships, air force, and medical units were brought from Canada, Italy, Argentina, Australia and some other countries. Japan and Germany sent financial support. 1991- 37 days of bombardment in which 76 aircrafts damaged or crashed. The goal was to destroy property, not people. Saddam eventually backed and surrendered after long ground battle. His power was limited and contained.