Ramansh Sharma                                  DBQ Essay                                Date- 10/28/17
        The period of American Revolution from 1775-1800 was a result of the British oppression upon American colonists that started after the French and Indian War. The British imposed heavy direct and indirect taxes, issued acts like the Stamp Act and the Coercive (Intolerable to the colonists) Acts. The British were challenging the fundamentals Enlightenment ideas that the colonists had deep beliefs in. They were abusing the rights of life, liberty, and pursuit of happiness of the colonists. The result was that great thinkers in America like Thomas Jefferson, John Adams, James Madison, Alexander Hamilton, and George Washington came together and wrote the Declaration of Independence in 1776, which gave a public declaration that America is breaking off from all ties with Great Britain. However, this wasn’t the first time a document has discussed fundamental rights of man in history. The Magna Carta (1215), English Bill of Rights (1689), and the American Bill of Rights (1789) were all written because of oppression from a king or ruler. The American Revolution was of great significance for other revolutions around the world. It influenced the French Revolution (1789) where the oppressive government was overthrown and Napoleon took over, and the Haitian Revolution (1791-1804) where slaves rose for their fundamental rights. The American Revolution itself was a combination of changes and continuities. The American Revolution brought about change by organizing social (violent and nonviolent) rebellions against unjust British laws such as the Proclamation Line of 1763, the Stamp Act and the Intolerable Acts, by politically breaking off from the British empire and creating its own national government (Articles of Confederation) with new industrial economic goals, and respecting the social fundamental rights of every man regardless of his social class or economic status. At the same time, the revolution maintained continuities such as wealth gap between people, continued slavery,  a strong sense of enmity with the Indians, and limited rights for women.
        One of the biggest change brought by the American Revolution was the general grudge against the British empire inside of the colonists. It started with the Proclamation Line of 1763 which turned the Ohio River valley into Royal Indian Reserve and forbade colonists from settling west of the Appalachian mountains. The Ohio River valley was the place that the colonists fought the French and Indian war for in the first place. And now, Britain forbids them to live there. This made colonists resent the British empire. When the colonists still settled in the river valley (it was nearly impossible to strictly enforce the proclamation), Ottawa chief Pontiac led a rebellion in western Pennsylvania in May 1763 due to conflicts between colonists and indians in the river valley. Disgusted with Pontiac’s rebellion and the failure of colonial government to keep the people’s interest secured, Paxton Boys of Lancaster killed 6 Indian men, women, and children. The British promised to enforce their agreement with the Indians. After this, Britain passed the Stamp Act in 1765 which imposed a tax on commonly used items like cards, dice, legal documents, newspapers, pamphlets, and advertisements to pay for the debt incurred by Britain during the French and Indian War. Anger and discontent led the colonists to hold the Stamp Act Congress, the Virginia Resolves, boycott British textiles, and violent protests by the Sons of Liberty. The first three were nonviolent protests in hope that the British government would understand their problems because of the Stamp Act. The Stamp Act Congress (first continental congress) even sent a petition for this to Britain. But the Sons of Liberty had different ideas. They tarred and feathered the British officials who tried to enforce the unfair taxes and planted liberty poles in celebration of colonial self government. However, regardless of the way of protest, all colonists strongly resented the colonial government for this direct taxation. However, colonists did not want or were prepared to separate from the British empire yet. But then people read and observed in the 1700s that the British government was not virtuous at all and violated all enlightenment ideas. It didn’t put the public welfare in front of the king’s selfishness, or limited its own power. This was essentially the critical point where the colonists could have been stopped. However, the Boston Massacre of 1770 (British soldiers attacked colonists and killed 5 colonists) and the Boston Tea Party of 1773 (colonists threw tea offboard a ship in protest to tax on it), made the unsure colonists chose their sides. Enraged by such actions, Britain passed the Coercive Acts (Intolerable Acts for the colonists). The Acts shut down all trade ports in Boston which affected trade and commerce in all the colonies, all elected positions such as local judges in Massachusetts were to be appointed by British king, all royal officials received trials in different colony or even in Britain, and increased powers were given to French speaking Catholics in Canadian province of Quebec. As if that was not enough, Britain passed the Quartering Act of 1765, that allowed military commanders to live in houses among the colonists. The colonists also had to pay the rent and give food to the military. These laws were literally openly challenging the colonists to protest and gave a clear message that the British government was not virtuous. In 1774-1775, colonists start talking about breaking apart from the British empire. In 1776, Jefferson wrote the Declaration of Independence which was the definite decision of all the colonies. People could no longer take the oppression of Britain over them. They wanted to drive away from them every British who wanted to see them in “chains of tyranny” to their island of Britain where they would enjoy their slavery and to never let them return to the happy and free land of America (Document A). The colonists have come as far from quietly bearing heavy taxes from Britain to declaring their independence from the British empire. It was without any doubt, a major change brought by the American Revolution.
        Other major changes brought by the revolution were American politically breaking off from the British empire, creating its own national government, and respecting the fundamental rights of every man. After George Washington, the commander of the American army at that time, fought victorious battles against the British army, American army finally drove them out of America. Since the new country needed a new constitution, the Articles of Confederation were written in 1777, and ratified by all 13 states in 1781. This new government was purposely made weak so that America doesn’t look like absolutist European countries. However, this plan backfired as the government became too weak. It didn’t have the power to tax people which was its prime reason of failure. Moreover, the Articles had little power to maintain military forces or suppress rebellions. One such example is the Shays’s rebellion. When Massachusetts government aggressively taxed people, depressed economy along with taxes made earning a living extremely hard for farmers like Daniel Shays. The rebellion led by Shays disrupted government operations. The national government was not able to suppress the rebellion because of weak army. Eventually the rebellion fades away but the Articles still remained weak. To fix this, all the states come together in the Constitutional Convention in 1787, threw away the Articles of Confederation, and made a new constitution from scratch. This shows how the people in the newly independent America didn’t tolerate any kind of unfair government taxation at all. Moreover, the government cares for people, as all the states discarded the Articles and replaced it with a better constitution that would give more power to federal government to maintain more order. This is another example of a change in the mindset of people brought by the American Revolution. Since the government of America was based on enlightenment ideals, everyone in the country had basic rights to life, liberty, and pursuit of happiness. This was major change from the colonial period because, people had minimal rights and  representation under the rule of British government in colonial America. After the revolution, no person was forced to believe in any particular religion, and essentially everyone was free to hold any opinion on religion or practice their own religion (Document C). This was a very radical change, after colonists faced religious discrimination when the Intolerable Acts gave more rights to French Catholics than the colonists. Another major change because of the revolution was the emergence of different ideas for the future of America. On one hand, Alexander Hamilton pictured an industrialized America, and on the other hand, Thomas Jefferson pictured America as a future country of virtuous farmers. Jefferson’s support for this claim was that America should not base itself on European industrialized nations, because Europe was desperate to turn to industrialization because of lack of land, which America has in plenty after independence. Jefferson believes that farmers are the most vigorous, virtuous, and valuable citizens who truly keep the country’s liberty and interests in mind, and therefore they should not be made into sailors or artisans if they can become a farmer (Document B). The purpose of Jefferson to write this is to express the ideas and focusses of the Democrat-Republicans. He didn’t want Hamilton’s industrial ideas to be the future of America. As a result, Jefferson tried to spread his virtuous intentions so that people can see that his ideas are better for American society than Hamilton’s ideas are. These were the major changes that were brought by the American Revolution. These changes were radical in the sense that they were based on enlightenment ideals.
        However, even after the revolution, there were continuities kept in the American society like wealth gap between people, continued slavery,  a strong sense of enmity with the Indians, and limited rights for women. It is often a topic of argument on who really benefitted from the revolution. In broader terms, white men benefitted the most. They still had their land and slaves after the war. The revolution didn’t turn out to be as beneficial for middle and lower class people. Although most of these people gained a lot of respect from contributing in the revolutionary cause, they were still poor. People like George Washington and Thomas Jefferson were rich men before and after the war. Therefore, wealth gap among social classes stayed the same throughout and after the revolution. Slavery was still legal and practiced in independent America. Someone couldn’t force a person to be a slave, but still lawfully own slaves previously owned. Therefore, if someone’s slave runs away, the owner has complete legal right, to reclaim the slave  and claim his or her service (Document E). Indians were in an even worse condition than the slaves. The Americans refused to sign any kind of peace treaty with the Indians. The Indians were disappointed to find that the Americans didn’t include the Indians while negotiating peace with Britain (Document D). The purpose of the United Indian Nations to say this was to hope that the Americans might forgive them for siding with Britain in the war and negotiate some peace with them too. The Americans felt betrayed by the indians after most of them sided with Britain during the revolution. After their victory, the colonists sought revenge from them. The colonists felt justified in taking Indian lands for themselves. The colonists and Indians fought for the fertile northwestern region of Ohio river valley. Once, even the Indian army defeated the American army. Then, Washington formed the Legion of the United States which was a much more trained army than Sinclair’s army that lost to the Miami Confederacy. In the Battle of Fallen Timbers in 1794, General Wayne led the legion and slaughtered the Indian army. The indians were devastated to see the British refuse for help which they promised. The result was Treaty of Greenville in 1795 which gave up the Ohio River valley to the Americans. Another continuity after the revolution was the limited rights for women. Even though women contributed by teaching good values to children in the revolution, they felt that they should still get more rights. They reasoned that their gender should not be perceived as weak or timid, and that if women are allowed to read, why not serve in public offices or take part in public matters (Document G). Molly Wallace’s intended audience for this claim are other women and all men that think that women are incapable. She is effectively trying to change public opinion on women though this. These are the continuities that remained even after the revolution.
        In conclusion the changes brought by the revolution were, a revolutionary mindset that protested against unjust British laws, politically breaking off from Britain and creating a new federal government, and respecting the general fundamental rights of every man. The continuities were wealth gap, slavery, enmity with Indians, and limited women rights. However, in my opinion, the radical changes far outweigh the continuities. This is because, those changes were the reason that America was able to become independent. Sooner or later, women would gain more rights and slavery would be abolished but this couldn’t have happened without America being an independent nation. Therefore, the American Revolution brought far more radical changes than it kept continuities in the American society.