Ramansh Sharma                        Podcast reflection                                 Date-10/17/18

New York’s Got Talent: Episode 8 - Matthew Silver & Paperboy the Prince
Notes:
Awkward men saying they have pretty eyes, they like gameboys, and they wear khaki pants. They don't like playing gameboy in public cuz its weird and dangerous in public. Gater pants, someone thought it was snake, it's a shout out to amphibians (reptiles). People give them negative look but they are beautiful creatures. A talent show hosted sometime before. The people are street performers. “How would you describe your performance”- the collaboration was good, perform with music, it was nice. Paperboy is a rapper, motivator, basketball player, music creator, nice person. One guy calls himself a fartist. They act like cartoon characters. Fidget spinners. Matrix.


This podcast made by a group of friends who are street artists and performers, was especially interesting to me. Since I had a bad perception of podcasts as a form of literature/art previously, I was trying to pick the best podcast I could listen to. As unimaginable as I thought it would be, I could not pick a podcast. There were just too many options and a large variety. So I took a suggestion from my friend and listened to this podcast from Matthew Silver. This podcast was unlike all the ones I have heard until now. All the podcast I heard until now were about tragic and sad events - parent’s death, car/truck accidents, losing someone close to oneself. As a result, I wanted to shift to science fiction, something I could relate to. But I ended up listening to this podcast, and I enjoyed it to the fullest. Unlike others, one thing I really liked about the speakers in this podcast was that they were not telling one story that was sad and was supposed to have a deep meaningful closing at the end. Rather, these street artists, singers, and dancers, are just talking about old days, sharing small stories from small events. The focused attention on one small moment allowed me to relate to the speakers in the humor side. It was extremely enjoyable, for example, one speaker talks about how he made a small video about playing with a fidget spinner on the street and throw it on the ground, for which he got millions of views. Not only is this story silly and funny, the speaker add a level of casual twist to it by using curse words. Even though it sounds inappropriate and unprofessional sometimes, it does add to the humor, which is a really important component for me to look for in podcasts. Another funny example I remember is when one speaker compliments on the other speaker's khaki pants. The pants had alligators drawn on them. When inquired, the person wearing them explains them to be some kind of reptiles, and how wearing the pants is a shoutout to all the amphibians. Another speaker joins in and says that amphibians and reptiles are misunderstood creatures mostly taken for their jagged scaled and ugly looks, but how they are sincere and nice creatures. This interaction made me laugh. I believe this to be the sign for me that I like the podcast. I am not a natural auditory learner. Podcasts are a new thing to me. As a matter of fact, I am listening to the podcast right now along with writing about it so I do not forget the content later on. Just now, one of the speaker says how not to be discouraged ever in one’s life. Because that is what the machine or the matrix wants you to be like, for you to be soulless. Another speaker just made a joke about how life keeps throwing sh*t at your face and makes it suck for you, but it is just cliché. People sometimes do fake depressing (at Bronx Science also) because they want to relate to people around them. It is also easier to be depressed rather than be inspiring to others. After saying something serious like that, the speakers take the factor down a little and talk about bad singing and demonstrate with weird sounds from their throats. The speakers literally are not trying to convey one story. They are not trying to solve the mysteries of the universe and human behaviour. They are just talking about human beings, being human beings, strengths and weaknesses (kryptonite). I believe that is the greatest strength of this podcast - humor combined with deep messages. If they only talked about their art conventions, or their practices and interactions on the street, I would really bored, really fast. But the jokes and the casual mood kept me hanging in there. I do not like art, but I do like people relating art to daily problems and cliché ideas in America. For example, the speakers talked about how hard it to be a street artist and live in New York, to which then the other artist responded that he should try what he does for some extra money - use an online paypal account from which he gets donations up to $150 for doing small funny video gigs.  Further on, I plan to use the same techniques in my fictional creative writing later on this year. Since it will definitely be related to science and physics, the humor will keep the audience tagged into my stories, while I casually convey my story, in a fun and meaningful way.