With a packet of pretzels in my left hand and my phone in my right hand, I sat hopelessly at a table with four seniors. Five laptops, five brilliant minds, the internet at our fingertips, and we had nothing. It was five in the evening and we were facing a seemingly impossible dilemma.
My hackathon teammates were taking advanced Game Programming while I was just a shy freshmen with minimal knowledge of web design. Our project was truly exceptional: a piano tiles game with integrated hand motions that were detected by a motion sensor armband. The first part came easy, the seniors wrote the code for the basic piano tiles game by noon. But then came the time to implement the hand motions into our game. No one on our team had the slightest idea on how to position them at regular intervals in the game. 
We could hear the joyous laughs and roars of other teams as they triumphantly showed their projects to the supervisors. All this happened while we sat there like statues. With crumbs of pretzels and spills of Gatorade all over us, we waited for a miracle to snap us out of our slumber. The hackathon was nearing its end and without the hand motions, our game would be demoted from something unique and fascinating to a something, well, nothing. My team had little hope left of deciphering this riddle of the Sphinx. However, I was not ready to give up. The hackathon was a haven for me. A place where I was surrounded by people with similar interests, friends who shared my passion and enthusiasm. I cherished this community more than anything. Then, the solution struck me like Zeus’s lightning bolt. 
I did not believe myself at first. There is no way I could have solved something the seniors could not. I explained my solution to Aki, our team leader. When I finished writing the long equation, his eyes lay wide open. Immediately he was thanking me for the solution. He hurried back to the others, dragged them to the whiteboard and let them too, marvel at the solution. The four seniors, in semicircle, turned towards me and congratulated me for the accomplishment. The coders immediately jumped into implementation, with only twenty minutes remaining. I felt content, having contributed meaningfully to the team. 
It took them about ten minutes to write the ten lines of code that made our project enchanted with sweet gaming wizardry. To my surprise, the team quoted me as the key player in the “how did you do it” section of submitting the game. This was the first time I was given the leading credit in a team project. Not only did it make me feel important, but it inspired confidence inside me. 
As the three fates deemed it so, we gave a breathtaking presentation of the game. Aki scored an incredibly high score in the game, bewildering the whole auditorium. The judges and the audience were perplexed by our performance. The presentation ended, and after two seconds of silence, the judges stood up and gave us a standing ovation, followed by the rest of the audience. 
 It is often said in Greek mythology that mortal belief in the gods is what keeps them immortal. On this day, our team’s spirit was immortalized by the belief and praise of the audience. Our team placed first in the hackathon. I learned something about teamwork that day. I learned that I do not always have to be the leader or the best guy in a team to be a contributing teammate. What I needed was fierce curiosity and unmatched perseverance, which this day embedded deep into my lifestyle.