Ramansh Sharma                                  DBQ Essay                                Date- 10/28/17
        The period of American Revolution from 1775-1800 was a result of the British oppression upon American colonists that started after the French and Indian War. The British imposed heavy direct and indirect taxes, issued acts like the Stamp Act and the Coercive (Intolerable to the colonists) Acts. The British were challenging the fundamentals Enlightenment ideas that the colonists had deep beliefs in. They were abusing the rights of life, liberty, and pursuit of happiness of the colonists. The result was that great thinkers in America like Thomas Jefferson, John Adams, James Madison, Alexander Hamilton, and George Washington came together and wrote the Declaration of Independence in 1776, which gave a public declaration that America is breaking off from all ties with Great Britain. However, this wasn’t the first time a document has discussed fundamental rights of man in history. The Magna Carta (1215), English Bill of Rights (1689), and the American Bill of Rights (1789) were all written because of oppression from a king or ruler. The American Revolution was of great significance for other revolutions around the world. It influenced the French Revolution (1789) where the oppressive government was overthrown and Napoleon took over, and the Haitian Revolution (1791-1804) where slaves rose for their fundamental rights. The American Revolution itself was a combination of changes and continuities. The American Revolution brought about change by organizing social (violent and nonviolent) rebellions against unjust British laws such as the Proclamation Line of 1763, the Stamp Act and the Intolerable Acts, by politically breaking off from the British empire and creating its own national government (Articles of Confederation) with new industrial economic goals, and respecting the social fundamental rights of every man regardless of his social class or economic status. At the same time, the revolution maintained continuities such as wealth gap between people, continued slavery,  a strong sense of enmity with the Indians, and limited rights for women.
        One of the biggest change brought by the American Revolution was the general grudge against the British empire inside of the colonists. It started with the Proclamation Line of 1763 which turned the Ohio River valley into Royal Indian Reserve and forbade colonists from settling west of the Appalachian mountains. The Ohio River valley was the place that the colonists fought the French and Indian war for in the first place. And now, Britain forbids them to live there. This made colonists resent the British empire. When the colonists still settled in the river valley (it was nearly impossible to strictly enforce the proclamation), Ottawa chief Pontiac led a rebellion in western Pennsylvania in May 1763 due to conflicts between colonists and indians in the river valley. Disgusted with Pontiac’s rebellion and the failure of colonial government to keep the people’s interest secured, Paxton Boys of Lancaster killed 6 Indian men, women, and children. The British promised to enforce their agreement with the Indians. After this, Britain passed the Stamp Act in 1765 which imposed a tax on commonly used items like cards, dice, legal documents, newspapers, pamphlets, and advertisements to pay for the debt incurred by Britain during the French and Indian War. Anger and discontent led the colonists to hold the Stamp Act Congress, the Virginia Resolves, boycott British textiles, and violent protests by the Sons of Liberty. The first three were nonviolent protests in hope that the British government would understand their problems because of the Stamp Act. The Stamp Act Congress (first continental congress) even sent a petition for this to Britain. But the Sons of Liberty had different ideas. They tarred and feathered the British officials who tried to enforce the unfair taxes and planted liberty poles in celebration of colonial self government. However, regardless of the way of protest, all colonists strongly resented the colonial government for this direct taxation. However, colonists did not want or were prepared to separate from the British empire yet. But then people read and observed in the 1700s that the British government was not virtuous at all and violated all enlightenment ideas. It didn’t put the public welfare in front of the king’s selfishness, or limited its own power. This was essentially the critical point where the colonists could have been stopped. However, the Boston Massacre of 1770 (British soldiers attacked colonists and killed 5 colonists) and the Boston Tea Party of 1773 (colonists threw tea offboard a ship in protest to tax on it), made the unsure colonists chose their sides. Enraged by such actions, Britain passed the Coercive Acts (Intolerable Acts for the colonists). The Acts shut down all trade ports in Boston which affected trade and commerce in all the colonies, all elected positions such as local judges in Massachusetts were to be appointed by British king, all royal officials received trials in different colony or even in Britain, and increased powers were given to French speaking Catholics in Canadian province of Quebec. As if that was not enough, Britain passed the Quartering Act of 1765, that allowed military commanders to live in houses among the colonists. The colonists also had to pay the rent and give food to the military. These laws were literally openly challenging the colonists to protest and gave a clear message that the British government was not virtuous. In 1774-1775, colonists start talking about breaking apart from the British empire. In 1776, Jefferson wrote the Declaration of Independence which was the definite decision of all the colonies. People could no longer take the oppression of Britain over them. They wanted to drive away from them every British who wanted to see them in “chains of tyranny” to their island of Britain where they would enjoy their slavery and to never let them return to the happy and free land of America (Document A). The colonists have come as far from quietly bearing heavy taxes from Britain to declaring their independence from the British empire. It was without any doubt, a major change brought by the American Revolution.
        Other major changes brought by the revolution were American politically breaking off from the British empire, creating its own national government, and respecting the fundamental rights of every man. After George Washington, the commander of the American army at that time, fought victorious battles against the British army, American army finally drove them out of America. Since the new country needed a new constitution, the Articles of Confederation were written in 1777, and ratified by all 13 states in 1781. This new government was purposely made weak so that America doesn’t look like absolutist European countries. However, this plan backfired as the government became too weak. It didn’t have the power to tax people which was its prime reason of failure. Moreover, the Articles had little power to maintain military forces or suppress rebellions. One such example is the Shays’s rebellion. When Massachusetts government aggressively taxed people, depressed economy along with taxes made earning a living extremely hard for farmers like Daniel Shays. The rebellion led by Shays disrupted government operations. The national government was not able to suppress the rebellion because of weak army. Eventually the rebellion fades away but the Articles still remained weak. To fix this, all the states come together in the Constitutional Convention in 1787, threw away the Articles of Confederation, and made a new constitution from scratch. This shows how the people in the newly independent America didn’t tolerate any kind of unfair government taxation at all. Moreover, the government cares for people, as all the states discarded the Articles and replaced it with a better constitution that would give more power to federal government to maintain more order. This is another example of a change in the mindset of people brought by the American Revolution. Since the government of America was based on enlightenment ideals, everyone in the country had basic rights to life, liberty, and pursuit of happiness. This was major change from the colonial period because, people had minimal rights and  representation under the rule of British government in colonial America. After the revolution, no person was forced to believe in any particular religion, and essentially everyone was free to hold any opinion on religion or practice their own religion (Document C). This was a very radical change, after colonists faced religious discrimination when the Intolerable Acts gave more rights to French Catholics than the colonists. Another major change because of the revolution was the emergence of different ideas for the future of America. On one hand, Alexander Hamilton pictured an industrialized America, and on the other hand, Thomas Jefferson pictured America as a future country of virtuous farmers. Jefferson’s support for this claim was that America should not base itself on European industrialized nations, because Europe was desperate to turn to industrialization because of lack of land, which America has in plenty after independence. Jefferson believes that farmers are the most vigorous, virtuous, and valuable citizens who truly keep the country’s liberty and interests in mind, and therefore they should not be made into sailors or artisans if they can become a farmer (Document B). The purpose of Jefferson to write this is to express the ideas and focusses of the Democrat-Republicans. He didn’t want Hamilton’s industrial ideas to be the future of America. As a result, Jefferson tried to spread his virtuous intentions so that people can see that his ideas are better for American society than Hamilton’s ideas are. These were the major changes that were brought by the American Revolution. These changes were radical in the sense that they were based on enlightenment ideals.
        However, even after the revolution, there were continuities kept in the American society like wealth gap between people, continued slavery,  a strong sense of enmity with the Indians, and limited rights for women. It is often a topic of argument on who really benefitted from the revolution. In broader terms, white men benefitted the most. They still had their land and slaves after the war. The revolution didn’t turn out to be as beneficial for middle and lower class people. Although most of these people gained a lot of respect from contributing in the revolutionary cause, they were still poor. People like George Washington and Thomas Jefferson were rich men before and after the war. Therefore, wealth gap among social classes stayed the same throughout and after the revolution. Slavery was still legal and practiced in independent America. Someone couldn’t force a person to be a slave, but still lawfully own slaves previously owned. Therefore, if someone’s slave runs away, the owner has complete legal right, to reclaim the slave  and claim his or her service (Document E). Indians were in an even worse condition than the slaves. The Americans refused to sign any kind of peace treaty with the Indians. The Indians were disappointed to find that the Americans didn’t include the Indians while negotiating peace with Britain (Document D). The purpose of the United Indian Nations to say this was to hope that the Americans might forgive them for siding with Britain in the war and negotiate some peace with them too. The Americans felt betrayed by the indians after most of them sided with Britain during the revolution. After their victory, the colonists sought revenge from them. The colonists felt justified in taking Indian lands for themselves. The colonists and Indians fought for the fertile northwestern region of Ohio river valley. Once, even the Indian army defeated the American army. Then, Washington formed the Legion of the United States which was a much more trained army than Sinclair’s army that lost to the Miami Confederacy. In the Battle of Fallen Timbers in 1794, General Wayne led the legion and slaughtered the Indian army. The indians were devastated to see the British refuse for help which they promised. The result was Treaty of Greenville in 1795 which gave up the Ohio River valley to the Americans. Another continuity after the revolution was the limited rights for women. Even though women contributed by teaching good values to children in the revolution, they felt that they should still get more rights. They reasoned that their gender should not be perceived as weak or timid, and that if women are allowed to read, why not serve in public offices or take part in public matters (Document G). Molly Wallace’s intended audience for this claim are other women and all men that think that women are incapable. She is effectively trying to change public opinion on women though this. These are the continuities that remained even after the revolution.
        In conclusion the changes brought by the revolution were, a revolutionary mindset that protested against unjust British laws, politically breaking off from Britain and creating a new federal government, and respecting the general fundamental rights of every man. The continuities were wealth gap, slavery, enmity with Indians, and limited women rights. However, in my opinion, the radical changes far outweigh the continuities. This is because, those changes were the reason that America was able to become independent. Sooner or later, women would gain more rights and slavery would be abolished but this couldn’t have happened without America being an independent nation. Therefore, the American Revolution brought far more radical changes than it kept continuities in the American society.EXPLORING ANTEBELLUM AMERICA 1820-1860 -:
BY
WILLIAM GOLDSMITH

Ramansh Sharma, Period 3, Term Research Paper


                                         December 18, 1835
It has been twelve days since my mother has passed away. Both my parents dead, and my cotton farm does not bear any good amount of harvest. Last night, my wife, being extremely religious and deeply influenced by the second Great Awakening like me, advised me to explore the country outside of our hometown Carlton, Georgia, so that I can experience what is to be an American and possibly find a new mode of living for my family. She says that the trip will help me cut down on my arrogance that I have. I would have argued against this suggestion, but she said that God himself had commanded her in her dream last night to tell me this, so I knew I had to do it. I did not want to leave my wife alone with the our male slave we had at home. But I was convinced when Sally insisted that she will be safe. I packed my bag with some food Sally packed for me, money, and few shirts and pants, and dressed myself with a white linen shirt, black pants and shoes, and my overcoat. I fetched my hat, kissed Sally goodbye,  and left the house to explore America. I am also keeping this diary so as to record my periodic interactions and reflecting on them.
I first decided to travel to Miami, Florida to learn more about how to tame slaves since mine has been giving me some trouble lately, so I bought a railroad ticket for that. The railroad system  in the South at this time was undercapitalized. The South invested about $6,000 less per mile in railroad development than the rest of the nation [1]. Still, it was shameful that the price of the ticket was so high. Not having the money to buy the expensive ticket, whose price I prefer not to mention, I pleaded an army officer standing nearby on the station to kindly allow me to travel on the army baggage train about to leave. I asked him so, “Please Sir, I beg you to let me travel with you on this train. I don’t have a lot of money, and I must get to Florida. All I have to offer you is this meatloaf my wife packed for me for my journey”. The officer must have been in good mood for he let me on without taking any of my food or money. I boarded one of the center cars of the train, and found the different cabins filled with sacks of cotton all around me. I threw my bag on the floor, settled on a pile of cotton sacks in one of the corners in the cabin and slept away as the sun went down.
                          February 26, 1836
A lot has happened since I last wrote in this diary. After I boarded the train to Florida from Georgia, the same night, a group of Seminole Indian tribe led by their leader Osceola ambushed our army baggage train for food and ammunitions [2]. By daybreak, they had tied our hands to our back and gagged our mouths. We had no choice but to follow these horrendous savages. While they were directing us into the woods, I noticed that all of these tribesmen were carrying guns and primitive spears. I would have asked them some questions on my mind like why are they doing this or where are they taking us, but alas! these animals could not speak english. Suddenly I was taken aback as one of the military officers, the very one that let me on the train, tried to escape. He unfortunately only ran about twenty feet before being impaled on the back of his neck by one Indian. They threw his body away like garbage and moved on. This event changed my perspective on Indians completely. I thought they were like apes and monkeys who had no sense of violence, let alone killing people with such harsh ways. Now I see their true colors. All I could do was keep my voice down so as to not being attention to me. It was now that I regret not embracing my wife enough when I left. I now see that my life, a thin thread joining my consciousness and the mortal world, could be severed with such ease by these barbarous Indians. When we reached their hideout, I saw a young, energetic, man who was wrestling [3] with other Indians around him in an arena. As he was exiting the arena wearing a hunting shirt with long sleeves that came down to his knees [4], we were brought near him and made to get on our knees. The Indians who captured us bowed in respect to him and left us there. He watched us for a few minutes and left too. Later on that night, our hands were untied and we were given food and water. I ate the meat quickly and drank some water, and washed my hands and face with the rest. I saw the leader nearby and approached him. He was my only chance of escaping this hell. As I came forward, he turned towards me, put his hand on his chest, and said one word, “Osceola”. I bowed in respect and introduced myself. To my surprise, he understood everything. I knew I had to be calm and not let my anger on these people get me slaughtered, so I asked Osceola with my best tone why he was doing all this to us. He replied in an exasperated tone, “Dear friend, this is a message for your government who wants us to migrate west, but we don’t want to” he replied 
“The white man says I shall go, and he will send people to make me go; but I have a rifle, and I have some powder and some lead. I say, we must not leave our homes and lands. If any of our people want to go west we won’t let them; and I tell them they are our enemies, and we will treat them so, for the Great Spirit will protect us [5] ”. 
After this conversation, we were told to sleep in some beds made from animal hides and skins. They also gave me back my diary for which I thanked them. After a few days of rest, I accounted my whole experience with the Indians in here. They have told me that they will let me go with respect and all my belongings very soon as I am not affiliated with the army they caught me with. Apart from their brutal savagery and wilderness, the Seminoles are also friendly to their loved ones. They sing in groups, dance around bonfires at nights, drink from the same cups, and fight beside each other.
                                                                                                  May 4, 1838
        After spending a few more months with the Seminoles, Osceola decided it was time for me to leave. His men were kind enough to escort me to the nearby train station. There, I bought a pack of tickets that would allow me to take several trains to reach North Carolina, far away from Indian tribes. I boarded an afternoon train from Georgia and started my journey. As the train made stops along the way, I used to stop at different places along and stay in guest houses to learn more about the Southern way of living. With the war looming over our heads, I thought it might be a good idea to know about the reasons of it. What I could say now after talking to different people is that the prime reason of the war is that the Northern states want to contain the spread of slavery whereas the Southern states want to continue spreading slavery into newly acquired territories by the country. I, as a slave owner myself, can say that people who have slaves should be allowed to retain them as they own them as legal properties. However, I currently don’t have an opinion on the expansion of slavery. Anyway, I have been lately residing in Raleigh, North Carolina for the past year and a half, and I have been meeting some famous people lately. Yesterday morning, I visited the market to buy fruits and vegetables for the week. I was just leaving a shop when a nicely decorated and lavish wagon passed by me. It was a sight of pure beauty. The horse was as white as milk, with purple drapes over and the wagon was covered in bright red fabric. I caught a glimpse of the man inside but I could not recognize him. My curiosity led me to follow the wagon and luckily it was not going to fast. As it made a stop in front of a building that looked like a town hall, the man sitting inside slowly came out. I immediately went to him and introduced myself and I came to know that he was Noah Webster. I happen to know about some of his achievements such as his famous American dictionary, and his works on etymology. Although, I have heard rumors that Webster’s ten year work on tracing the history of english words was misguided because Webster was turned religiously blind after reading the Bible too literally [6]. His dismissive attitude towards German philologists seem to be responsible for his failure as an etymologist [7]. As I was trying to start a conversation with him, I happen to have an idea to start a local magazine after I was done with this trip. It would definitely help me raise some money for my family back at home. Anyway, for that idea I need to have an interview with Webster. Luckily I took out the small notebook and pen I was carrying, and without any delay, I politely asked him, “Sir, would you be so kind to give this poor man a small piece of your wisdom? Not too long. I just have a few questions”. Surprisingly, he invited me in the building. We headed towards a glass table with polished wooden chairs. As we settled down, I started by asking, “Mr. Webster, I have lately heard that your deep religiosity is a result of you being deeply affected by the second Great Awakening and that you believe that Adam and Eve were endowed with the faculty of language by God and that from that language has descended every single human language that has come into existence [8] ”. To this, he cleverly replied, “Where’s the question in that”. After that the extremely curious audience around us broke into a laugh which was stopped by Webster raising his hand. I realized I should be more careful with this man so I rephrased by question, “Sorry sir, I meant to ask is all that true about you and if so why do you think so? ”. This time he replied with the answer, “The strong affinity of the languages of Asia and Europe, furnished a strong argument in favor of the scriptural doctrine, that all nations have descended from a single pair, Adam and Eve. [9] ”. I was so amazed by this thoughtful response that I just let my emotions speak for me, “Sir, I am honestly deeply influenced by your opinion. I am speechless to your explanation. Thank you very much, I hope you have a wonderful day ahead”. Now I see how deeply one can be affected from spiritual attachment to God. What I heard from Webster shows that all languages have risen from the same ancestor. Might this also mean that all races have risen from the same ancestor too? I might have asked his opinion on it but the man was in a hurry and had to leave. If only I could be one of those lucky souls to unite with the Almighty, I might get enlightened too. With this I returned to my place and wondered which other famous people could I meet on this trip.
                                                                                        March 16, 1844
        After staying for about six years in North Carolina, I wanted to move more into the North and see how people are different over there. I decided this morning to move to Trenton, New Jersey. As I prepared to venture into the foreign lands, I went over my belongings: a few shirts, four pants, two black coats, a hat, some small utensils, a watch, and some bread. I was pretty impressed with my new haircut I got this morning. I had a small fight with the wagon owner that took me to the train station because he was charging me more than usual, probably because of the extra weight I was carrying. I bought a ticket for the first class cars in my train. I wonder how excited Sally would have looked knowing her husband has made enough money to afford a first class ticket. I personally chose it because the first class cabins have larger windows, which I like seeing through. Sitting on my leather seat, I saw this man sitting in front of me holding a paper in one hand, a pen in the other, with his head so leaned on the window that it was hard to see his full face. I cleared my throat to get his attention. No response. I cleared it louder this time and some other passengers turned their eyes toward me including the man in front of me. He turned around and I got to see his face. This person would stand about five feet, seven inches, had an attractive open face with a broad forehead, a strong Roman nose, and a slightly receding chin covered with a beard [10]. He had a full head of fine light brown hair and deep piercing blue-gray eyes [11]. He strided with an unusual energy [12]. He opened his mouth and said, “Greetings there fellow passenger. Do you want to ask or tell me something ?”. He seemed like a nice gentleman so I introduced myself to him. As he introduced himself to me, I came to know he was Henry David Thoreau, the famous poet who writes about nature. I wondered though, how could one stare outside a train while sitting in the lavish and exotic first class cabins. I asked Thoreau, “Sir, I could not help but notice that you were so occupied with staring outside the train window while sitting in a first class cabin. How could one stare at the wilderness of the outside world while sitting right in man made heaven?”. To this, the philosopher replied, “Dear friend, you are clearly misguided in your thoughts. This metal automaton which you call heaven from inside is a mere nuisance to the people outside.”, he sighed and continued in the most angry tone, 
“What an infinite bustle! I am awakened almost every night by the panting of the locomotive. It interrupts my dreams. There is no sabbath. It would be glorious to see mankind at leisure for once. It is nothing but work, work, work. I cannot easily buy a blank book to write thoughts in; they are commonly ruled for dollars and cents….If a man is tossed out a window when an infant, or scared out of his wits by the Indians, it is regretted chiefly because he was thus incapacitated for business! I think there is nothing, not even crime, more opposed to poetry, to philosophy, ay to life itself, than this incessant business [13].”
I sworn to control my anger on this trip but this gentleman just went above the line. I replied in an equally angry tone, “Well, sorry to say that you do not like the advancements that humanity is making, but then why are you even travelling in a train ?”. The old man took a deep breath and calmly answered that he is deeply disturbed by the railroad and how it is affecting the whole Nation [14]. He also added, “Wages is a cunning device of the devil for the benefit of tender consciences who would retain all the advantages of the slave system without the expense, trouble, and odium of being slaveholders. [15]”. I immediately realized he was attacking the factory owners in the north. I have heard that factory owners in north are so brutal to their workers that they are paid very less, for long working hours, and are often abused. I see now from Thoreau’s answer that these rumors are true. Maybe he is right in saying that slavery is a lot like this factory hell. Christ! May not I get cursed to work in one of those factories! After I arrived in Trenton, I thanked Thoreau for his conversation with me and he thanked in return. After thinking for some while, I had some thoughts that might be considered crazy and moronic. Maybe, slavery is after all bad. Maybe, blacks are human beings with feelings. If they are in reality human beings, it’s a shame to the white race for carrying out such acts of brutality towards them. Maybe, this nation needs to change. If only everyone would listen to Thoreau for once, they would see, that slavery is like factory work, unethical.
                                                                                              June 28, 1846
        I have been growing my beard lately and observed that it is turning all white. This means that I am becoming the victim of the inevitability of age and that I am gathering more and more wisdom. This afternoon, as I was roaming the streets of Trenton, I decided to treat myself to a cup of coffee. I stopped by a café and ordered a coffee. As I waited for my drink, I saw this man sitting on the table to my left, with his hands in his hair, trying to write something down. He seemed as if he had been trying for hours, but could not decide if his work was good. I felt pity seeing a man like this. I went up to his table took off my hat and asked if I could sit in the seat in front of him. As he nodded yes and curiously studied my face, I kindly asked him, “Sir I could not help but notice that you seem quite stressed with what you are trying to write. May I help you in any way”. The man replied with a smile, “My name is John L’ O’Sullivan. I the chief writer and editor of the Democratic Review magazine. Lately, as you might have heard that Congress has given the federal order to annex the territory of Texas and are currently arguing about President Polk’s request to authority to give formal notice to Great Britain of the termination of the agreement under which the two nations had jointly occupied the Oregon country since 1818 [16]. Well, I support the annexation of these territories by our country, and by our superior race. I have written something here that I am not sure is appealing. Would you be so kind to listen me read it to you?”. I immediately realized he was the next famous person for my future magazine and I agreed to hear him out. O’Sullivan started reading his work,
“The great future of the modern world is the growth and power of the The Anglo-Saxon race. The race is not divided into nearly powerful parts, one of  which, in the position of great political power, occupies the British islands, and from there sways the commercial world. The other inhabits the continent of North America, and will soon absorb the whole one vast union, from whose bosom, the British islands must thereafter draw their supplies of food, and become measurably dependent for the elements of their power….The practical annexation of the manufacturing interests of England to the agricultural interests of the United States through free trade, again unites the Anglo-Saxon race in an indissoluble bond, and gives a new impulse to the prosperity of this glorious union. [17]”
I was amazed by this piece of pure wisdom. I must have been staring blankly at his face because O’Sullivan had to say my name twice to shake me out of my wonder. I now see that I am not the only one to think that the white race is superior to other races. But I also see that O’Sullivan’s ideas are in direct conflict with the ideas I inferred from Webster’s claim of all languages rising form the same ancestor and Thoreau’s comparison of slavery and factory work. I had so much on my mind that I thanked O’Sullivan and returned home. I probably should have asked him how to start my own magazine. So not thoughtful of me! I wish I meet more people on this trip who can give me more insights on this topic of racial comparison.
                                                                                                      October 12, 1848
        A few months ago, as I was spending my time in Trenton, I figured it had been too long since I have met another person for interviewing for my magazine. So I started researching and asking people who would be some good people for me to interview to get to know northern viewpoints in more depth. All inquiries ended up in two names: Lydia Maria Child who is an abolitionist and women's rights activist, and Frederick Douglass who is a freedman and also an abolitionist. I heard that Child was in Boston, Massachusetts right now, so I quickly packed a bag with a few clothes, my diary, my another diary for interviewing, and my collection of pens. I took the morning train to Boston and reached the city at about noon. I took a wagon and headed to the building she was residing in. While travelling to her place, I faintly recalled that Mrs. Child has written a book about history of slavery, laws about slaves and free blacks, she gives an argument against racism and slavery as well [18]. Moreover, she even accounts for blacks noted for achievements such as doctors, or lawyers, or military men [19] which is quite surprising. As I was trying to tell the security guard at the front to let me in as it was crucially important for me to talk to Mrs. Child, he was “bound by his orders”. Luckily, Mrs. Child saw me and told that guard to let me in. I introduced myself to her and she was, surprisingly, interested in giving me an interview and answer my questions. I immediately sat down with her on a table and asked her, “Mrs. Child, I have heard that you are a women’s rights activist but you also support abolition. I do not see why you would support abolition when you have an equally hard goal to achieve more important to you?”. To this, Mrs. Child replied, “Mr. Goldsmith. May I ask you if you are a slave owner?”. I looked down and nodded. “Then may I also ask you why are you against emancipation of slaves?”. I answered in an angry tone, “I fear their equality to us. How can those slaves, who are meant to serve us for eternity walk amongst us like regular citizens with rights ?”. Mrs. Child now gave me a logical answer, “First, allow me to tell you that I work equally hard for women’s rights as I do for emancipation because both are the right things to do. But coming back to topic of emancipation”, then with a sigh she added, 
“I am aware that this desirable change must be attended with much more difficulty in the Southern States, simply because the evil has been suffered until it is fearfully overgrown; but it must not be forgotten that while they are using their ingenuity and strength to sustain it for the present, the mischief is increasing more and more rapidly. If this be not a good time to apply a remedy, when will be a better? They must annihilate slavery, or slavery will annihilate them [20].”
I understood that she saw enslaving someone as a moral issue that would lead to the disaster of our society, but why did she not consider that if slaves are set free they will bring chaos because of their barbaric and ignorant nature? When I asked her this question, Mrs. Child replied, 
“It seems to be forgotten that emancipation from tyranny is not an emancipation from law; the negro, after he is made free, is restrained from the commission of crimes by the same laws which restrain other citizens: if he steals, he will be imprisoned: if he commits murder, he will be hung. It will, perhaps, be said that the free people of color in the slave portions of this country are peculiarly ignorant, idle, and vicious? It may be so: for our laws and our influence are peculiarly calculated to make them bad members of society [21]. Think about that Mr. Goldsmith. Goodbye!”
This response changed my life. It gave me a completely different opinion on slavery. I do not know if I will be able to keep my slave anymore. First thing after leaving this building is to buy Mrs. Child’s book on slavery. I now have a pretty good understanding on what northerners think of slavery as. And maybe, they are right. Even if blacks are freed, so what, they will be like regular citizens. They won’t be taking over us. If they attack me, they will be jailed. And this nation would only prosper with the added intelligence of the blacks.  
                                                                                                    July 4, 1852
        After my meeting with Mrs. Child, I decided to make my way to Frederick Douglass, the former slave and present abolitionist. I went to the harbor in Boston and found the fastest steam ship there. Luckily the captain allowed me to board after I agreed to pay extra fifty dollars. I did get a little seasick on the way but I needed to get to Rochester, New York, to hear Douglass give a speech on independence day. When I reached New York, I got on a train and arrived at Rochester about twenty minutes after Douglass’s speech had already started. I hurriedly walked to  the majestic Corinthian Hall in downtown Rochester near the Genesee River [22], and the hall, unsurprisingly, was filled with about five to six hundred people [23]. As I made my way across the crowd to reach one of the VIP seats I had booked, I started to hear words from Douglass that really caught my attention as I sat down - “I am bound to speak, and whenever there is an opportunity to do so, I will speak against slavery. This, for the purpose of the celebration, is the Fourth of July. It is the birthday of your National Independence, and of your political freedom [24]”. This part brought tears in my eyes. Douglass’s voice today, was the voice of all slaves, in North and South, as one divine force speaking of it’s suffering. The idea that someone living in America is not allowed to celebrate July 4th as an occasion of independence is terrible. But that is the ugly truth for slaves. Douglas, on the other hand gave hope through his speech. Hope for setting things right - 
“...your nation is so young….You are, even now, only in the beginning of your national career, still lingering in the period of childhood. There is hope in the thought, and hope is much needed, under the dark clouds which lower above the horizon….Were the nation older, the patriot’s heart might be sadder, and the reformer’s brow heavier. Its future might be shrouded in gloom, and the hope of its prophets go out in sorrow. [25] ” 
Frederick Douglass has really touched my heart. One can only imagine how much pain a former slave would have to bear talking about abolition in front of a white crowd on a day that marks independence. But he spoke stronger that anyone I have ever seen. His optimism is truly inspiring. I have hereby gone through an experience comparable to the great awakening. Slavery is immoral, unethical, and brutal to me. Moreover, it is illogical for a human being to enslave one another. I, William Andrew Goldsmith, swear to God that I will be emancipating my slave as soon as I reach my hometown.                        
                April 1, 1855
        After my meeting with Frederick Douglass I heard from one of my café friends in New York that Commodore Matthew C. Perry has returned from his voyage from Japan. He had successfully opened up Japan for trade with United States. This news did not excite me too much except that I found another person to interview for my magazine. I inquired and found that Perry would be staying in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania for some time. Without wasting time, I picked up my bag and headed for the train station. I reached Pittsburgh in about two days and hired a wagon to take me to the public hall where Perry was staying in. As I paid and got off the wagon, I saw there was a long line to a stage. I asked around and heard that these all were journalists for newspapers and want to gather information from Perry. I joined the line. I happen to remember how Perry got sent to Japan. The developing trade with China, growth of U.S. whaling industry, the opening up of California, progress of steam navigation, good treatment of shipwrecked sailors, and competition with Britain for far east trade, all stimulated the interest in Japan, and for this mission, Matthew Perry was chosen [26]. While waiting, I recall that Perry had mixed feelings about the Japanese [27]. He hated Japanese deceits and chicanery, yet was fond of his Japanese counterparts [28]. At about five in the afternoon, my turn came and I went up to the stage. Perry was an old man. His hair had thinned and his face completely wrinkled. He reflected my father’s portrait weeks before he died. As I approached the chair in front of him, he yelled out to the rest of the line behind me, “That’s it! Last interview! I need to rest before returning to New York!”. Well, fortunate I was! I sat down, introduced myself, and asked my question, “Sir, what do you think of Japanese intellect and behaviour towards us Americans?”. To this, the Commodore answered, 
“No person in the world exceeded the Japanese in politeness and courtesy as well as to strangers as to each other, and they are systematic in that as in all other matters, suiting the forms of their salutations to the rank and position of the person saluted. Where I have never seen a city or town exhibiting a greater degree of cleanliness….from the filthiness of all Chinese cities….Although, I have never seen such an amount of apparent wretchedness as these squalid slaves would seem to suffer. [29]”
Holy Jesus! Perry actually has mixed feelings for the Japanese. I learned from him that Chinese cities are extremely dirty, and that Japanese cities are not. But more importantly, I learnt from Perry the same lesson I learnt from Douglass, Mrs. Child, Webster, and Thoreau. Slavery is a wretched disease of society. It is to be immediately removed for it is purely evil and unethical. After asking him that, I took his leave and went to a nearby hotel to stay for the night. I can’t wait to get back home and start my magazine. I am not going to stop. I will keep meeting famous people in this country. And all this credit goes to my dear wife, Sally, who encouraged me to go on this trip to rediscover who I am and what it is to be an American.


                                                                                        










Bibliography
Books
1. Bland, Celia. Osceola: Seminole rebel, Edited by W. David Baird. New York: Chelsea House, 1994.
2. Miller, Douglas T. Henry David Thoreau: A Man for All Seasons. Bridgewater, NJ: Replica Books, 1999.
3. Colaiaco, James A. Frederick Douglass and the Fourth of July. New York: Palgrave Macmillan, 2006.
4. Nester, William R. Power across the Pacific: a diplomatic history of American relations with Japan. Basingstoke: Macmillan, 1996.
5. Child, Lydia Maria. An Appeal in Favor of That Class of Americans Called Africans. New York: John S. Taylor, 1836.
Scholarly Articles
1. Ward, James A. "A New Look at Antebellum Southern Railroad Development." The Journal of Southern History 39, no. 3 (1973): 409-20. doi:10.2307/2206259. www.jstor.org/stable/2206259.
2. Goggin, John M., and J. R. Vinton. "Osceola: Portraits, Features, and Dress." The Florida Historical Quarterly 33, no. 3/4 (1955): 161-92. http://www.jstor.org/stable/30147214.
3. Robinson, Fred C. "Noah Webster as Etymologist." Neuphilologische Mitteilungen 111, no. 2 (2010): 167-74. http://www.jstor.org/stable/43344464.
4. Pratt, Julius W. "JOHN L. O'SULLIVAN AND MANIFEST DESTINY." New York History 14, no. 3 (1933): 223-25. http://www.jstor.org/stable/24470589.
5. Holland, Patricia G. "Lydia Maria Child (1802-1880)." Legacy 5, no. 2 (1988): 49. http://www.jstor.org/stable/25679032.
6. Brown, R. Lamont. The Geographical Journal 136, no. 2 (1970): 272. doi:10.2307/1796309. www.jstor.org/stable/1796309.


________________
[1] James A. Ward, "A New Look at Antebellum Southern Railroad Development," The Journal of Southern History 39, no. 3 (1973): 409-20. doi:10.2307/2206259, www.jstor.org/stable/2206259.
[2] Celia Bland, Osceola: Seminole rebel, ed. W. David Baird (New York: Chelsea House, 1994), 59.
[3] Ibid 23.
[4] John M. Goggin, and J. R. Vinton, "Osceola: Portraits, Features, and Dress," The Florida Historical Quarterly 33, no. 3/4 (1955): 161-92, http://www.jstor.org/stable/30147214.
[5] Celia Bland, Osceola: Seminole rebel, ed. W. David Baird (New York: Chelsea House, 1994), 16.
[6] Fred C. Robinson, "Noah Webster as Etymologist," Neuphilologische Mitteilungen 111, no. 2 (2010): 167-74, http://www.jstor.org/stable/43344464.
[7] Ibid.
[8] Fred C. Robinson, "Noah Webster as Etymologist," Neuphilologische Mitteilungen 111, no. 2 (2010): 167-74, http://www.jstor.org/stable/43344464.
[9] Ibid.
[10] Douglas T. Miller, Henry David Thoreau: A Man for All Seasons (Bridgewater, NJ: Replica Books, 1999), 47.
[11] Ibid.
[12] Ibid.
[13] Douglas T. Miller, Henry David Thoreau: A Man for All Seasons (Bridgewater, NJ: Replica Books, 1999), 37.
[14] Ibid.
[15] Ibid.
[16] Julius W. Pratt, "JOHN L. O'SULLIVAN AND MANIFEST DESTINY," New York History 14, no. 3 (1933): 223-25, http://www.jstor.org/stable/24470589.
[17] Julius W. Pratt, "JOHN L. O'SULLIVAN AND MANIFEST DESTINY," New York History 14, no. 3 (1933): 226, http://www.jstor.org/stable/24470589.
[18] Patricia G. Holland, "Lydia Maria Child (1802-1880)," Legacy 5, no. 2 (1988): 49, http://www.jstor.org/stable/25679032.
[19] Ibid.
[20] Lydia Maria Child, An Appeal in Favor of That Class of Americans Called Africans (New York: John S. Taylor, 1836), 96.
[21] Ibid.
[22] James A. Colaiaco, Frederick Douglass and the Fourth of July (New York: Palgrave Macmillan, 2006), 1.
[23] Ibid 7.
[24] Ibid 37.
[25] Ibid 38.
[26] R. Lamont. Brown, The Geographical Journal 136, no. 2 (1970): 272. doi:10.2307/1796309, www.jstor.org/stable/1796309.
[27] William R. Nester, Power across the Pacific: a diplomatic history of American relations with Japan (Basingstoke: Macmillan, 1996), 35.
[28] Ibid.
[29] William R. Nester, Power across the Pacific: a diplomatic history of American relations with Japan (Basingstoke: Macmillan, 1996), 36.﻿Ramansh Sharma                        APUSH Spring Research Paper                               Date-4/6/18
Part I: The Chart                        


President
	Domestic Policies/Events
	Foreign Policies/Events
	Truman
	1. 1949: Fair Deal- Advocated national health insurance, federal aid to education, enactment of Fair Employment Practices Commission to prevent racial discrimination in the workplace, and overhaul FDR’s farm subsidy programs. These measures were never put to law.
   * Success: Raised minimum wage to 75 cents/hour and broadened Social Security to cover ten million more Americans. Rest of package not passed (cost too high).
2. Truman did not inspire confidence in American public. He appointed old Missouri cronies to positions and tried to perpetuate New Deal, which led to a battle with Congress. Post-war mood was not conductive to New Deal reform. 
3. 1946: RR workers and Coal miners went on strike and paralyzed most of US transportation system. Prices rose and consumers lost faith in Truman. He helped end the strike. “To err is Truman” and “Had enough” were common for Truman. In 1946, Republicans took control of Congress.
4. Nation Security Act of 1947: reshaped nation’s major military and diplomatic institutions. A new department of defense would oversee all branched of the armed services, combining functions previously performed by that war and navy departments. A National Security Council (NSC) operating out of White House, would govern foreign and military policy. A Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) would replace wartime office of Strategic services. This act, in other words, gave the president expanded powers with which to pursue national and international goals.
5. 1947: Taft-Hartley Act- outlawed unfair labor practices included the closed shop and secondary boycotts. Permitted President to invoke a 8- day cooling-off period to delay strikes that might endanger national health and safety. Passed over Truman’s veto.
6. 1947: Truman gave speech to NAACP, discussing the importance of every man regardless of color has the right to adequate health care, education, decent home and salary, a worthwhile job, his voice heard in making public decisions, and a fair trial.
7. Election of 1948: Truman narrowly defeated John Dewey of NY. Truman ran against “Do-Nothing Congress” and won back Congress for his party.
8. 1948: Upon Truman’s request, Congress approved a new military draft and revived the Selective Service System.
9. 1948: Truman signed Executive Order 9981 which abolished racial discrimination in the US Armed forces and also led to end of segregation in other services.
10. Truman also approved the development of a new hydrogen bomb, far more powerful than the bombs US had used in 1945.
11. During Korean War, to control wartime economy at home, Truman set up Office of defense Mobilization to fight inflation by holding down prices and discouraging high union wage demands.
12. As HUAC suspected there were communist agents in Departments of Agriculture and Treasury in 1946 (Second Red Scare), Truman initiated a “Loyalty Program” in March 1947 to root out any susceptible communists. Many people lost their jobs. 
   * Treasury Department official Harry DExter WHite accused of spying for USSR. He was identified as a Soviet spy code-named “Jurist” under The Venona Cables in July 1948.
   * Alger Hiss from state department, was accused of being communist, and convicted to 4 years in jail in 1948.
   * In 1950, Klaus Fuchs, atomic bomb researcher, admitted giving Soviets info on A-Bomb, was convicted to 9 years in prison.
13. McCarthyism - a belief that communism was so evil that it must be destroyed where people had to believe in “guilt by association” destroy people’s reputations, and take their jobs-even without hard evidence.
14. U.S. Senator Joseph R. McCarthy was closely related to this anti-communist crusade as he charged celebrities, intellects and opposing politicians with acts of disloyalty. 
15. In February 1950, he falsely claimed he had names of 205 communists working in State Department, without ever providing evidence.
16. McCarthy created anti-communist hysteria. Fellow senators feared his command of public opinion, McCarthy was a class demagogue (like Huey Long). He even attacked fellow Republicans and Hollywood directors.
	1. Gave the order to strike Hiroshima and Nagasaki with atomic bombs to effectively end World War II.
2. March 1947: The Truman Doctrine- Truman asked Congress for $400 million to aid Greeks and Turks. It was now the duty of I.S. to support free people who were resisting armed minority supported by outside pressure. Greek communists defeated in 1949.
3. June 1947: The Marshall Plan- Western Europe was main concern of US . Feared Soviet domination. Food was scarce, industrial machinery, and lacked housing and jobs. Communist parties were gaining strength in Italy and France. This plan offered economic aid to all countries who wanted it, including the USSR to help rebuild economies. USSR rejected the aid. US gave $17 billion over 4 years to Western Europe.
4. 1948-49 NATO: The Western Military Alliance- Europeans wanted to create a security arrangement to protect them from USSR. April 1949: This treaty brought together US, Canada, and 10 European nations to sign a mutual defense treaty. Attack on one is attack on all. US sent 4 divisions to West Germany to provide presence and commitment. To attack US forces was to ignite WWIII.
5. 1948-49: The Berlin Blockade- Stalin cut off all rail and highway traffic to Berlin in June 1948. Operation Vittles - Truman ordered a massive airlift for the 10,000 troops and civilians in west Berlin. Sent in 2500 tons of supplies every 24 hours. Sent 60 B-29 bombers to British airbases to show Stalin that US meant business. Stalin did not try to stop the airlift, but rejected any diplomatic overture. Early 1949- Stalin ended the blockade. US achieved a striking political victory. Stalin’s plan backfired, since it helped bring about NATO. 
6. National Defense policy- “Symmetrical Containment” to prevent spread of communism everywhere (all areas of world were considered equally important). April 1950: NSC-68: Dean Acheson authors a new US defense policy that argued that USSR wanted to impose its absolute authority over rest of the world (contrast with Eisenhower’s “New Look” policy) and predicted that 1954 was a year of “maximum danger” in which USSR might launch a nuclear strike on US if US did not build up its military capability. This advocated drastic expansion of military spending on long run. Said US could spend upward of 50% of GNP on defense without worrying about balanced budgets or long term solvency. From $13 billion to $50 billion a year into national security. Goal was to build up “situations of strength” in which US could possibly counteract communist forces in Europe and elsewhere.
7. The Korean War: After WWII, USSR occupied Korea north of 38 parallel and installed pro-Soviet communist government led by Kim II-Sung. In the more populous and agrarian south, US supported nationalist government under Syngman Rhee. When North Korea attacked on 25th June 1950 (Stalin and Mao supported the invasion), Truman immediately ordered American military intervention to push North Koreans out of south. Organized UN police actions with many nations participating. In December 1950, when Chinese military counterattacked MacArthur’s invasion of North Korea (which reached near Chinese border), Truman denied MacArthur’s request to nuke China, and in April 1951, relieved him of his command (MacArthur returned home as a hero).
8. War helped solidify NSC-68 as a basic defense policy for US in Cold war. Led to $50 billion a year defense budget.
9. Truman sent a 35 men military force to train anti-communist soldiers in Vietnam.
	Eisenhower
	1. April 1953: the President ordered that government agencies fire all those guilty of “sexual perversion” (homosexuality) (Lavender Scare).
2. 1954: McCarthy said that US army was filled with communists. He led a televised senate investigation, however the public hated his tactics, and his popularity plummeted. Senate censured him for misconduct.
3. Relative Affluence: Americans lived in relative affluence by taking advantage of all the postwar opportunities, found wives, purchased homes, and built families with extraordinary alacrity. 
4. Baby Boom: men and women married at increasingly younger ages and spawned an unprecedented number of children in short order. Reflected faith in economy and desire to express oneself in dangerous world.
5. Perils of Conformity: general resentment against suburban life.
6. GNP growed continuously throughout throughout the 1950s (except plunge in 1948).
7. Car sales went through the roofs and pushed economy forward. From 6.7 million cars sold in 1950 to 7.9 million in 1955! General Motors became America’s first billion dollar corporation.
8. Mass cultural developments during 1950s: time of change despite categorizations life “The Silent 50s” or “The Eisenhower Equilibrium”. 
   * Spectator sports became very popular and extremely lucrative.
   * Fast food and Motels became big businesses with expansion of American roadways due to 1956 Interstate Highway Act. 
   * TV became heart of national culture. 172K US households had them in 1948, 15.3 million had them in 1952.
   * Rock and Roll took off with both black and white performers doing well, and this medium along with TV helped forge the coherent youth culture that had less respect for cultural and racial boundaries.
9. Suburbanization during 1950s: Postwar housing boom produces stark geographic segregation, with white suburbs and black cities. Suburbs held 33% of population by 1960.
10. Modern Republicanism: moderate political philosophy that promised no great new reforms but did promise to balance the budget, reduce inflation, and keep the economy strong. Eisenhower only balanced the budget twice in 8 years.
11. 1954: Extended Social Security to 7 million more Americans. Raised minimum wage to $1/hr. Created departments of health, education, and welfare.  Opposed national health insurance and any comprehensive federal aid to schools.
12. 1956: Highway Act: created interstate highway system (military reasons to evacuate cities in event of nuclear war). Helped trucking, organized labor, and farmers. Shortened travel time and channeled city growth.
13. Brown vs Board of Education declared segregation illegal. This decision was met with massive resistance at places. Senator Harry Byrd called for South to resist the implementation. Several Virginia school districts shut down all public schools, 1959-1964.
14. Emmett Till’s murder in 1955 was a turning point for civil rights movement in a way. Both, North and South, saw the terrifying corpse of the boy, and the brutality he was met with because of his race.
15. 1957: Eisenhower sent army of troops into Arkansas when state governor, Orval Faubus, refused to desegregate schools following court order of Brown vs Board of Education. He did it for presidential authority, not morality.
16. Reaction to USSR’s Sputnik, sent to orbit earth- led to panic and insecurity in US. Congress established NASA in 1958 and invested a lot of money in it.
17. National Defense Education Act- authorized federal financing of scientific and foreign language instruction in schools and colleges. 
	1. Military Keynesianism: started during Korean War, stimulated the economy but directed money to military more than civilian life. Was used to build up America’s military to keep it’s position as the world police and superpower.
2. New Look at Containment: a national security policy of the Department of Defense budget for Fiscal Year 1955. It was based on an extensive reappraisal of U.S. military requirements that began among Eisenhower and his closest advisers. It was formalized in National Security Council document 162/2 (NSC 162/2), which Eisenhower approved in 1953. NSC 162/2 reflected Eisenhower's desire for a "long-haul" approach to security planning that would maintain a constant level of military preparedness, consistent with the health of the U.S. economy. In this respect, it differed from NSC 68, approved by Truman. Truman's advisers believed that Soviet military capabilities would reach a maximum relative to those of the US in the mid-1950s. Eisenhower rejected the idea that one period would be any more dangerous than another and urged his planners to think in terms of a Soviet threat that was economic as well as military, thus being prepared for either one of those threats. 
3. Eisenhower supported asymmetrical containment in which he wanted to confront communist areas that really mattered, in areas where US could win, and in areas where the US economy would not be hurt.
4. Massive Retaliation: As part of the New Look policy, US would respond to any communist aggression with massive nuclear force at places and at times of its own choosing, thus preserving the element of surprise. 
5. Brinkmanship: willingness to risk nuclear war in order to intimidate the Soviet Union and China. Based on fear of Domino Theory, that any country lost to communism will cause a domino effect which will make its way to America eventually isolating and surrounding it completely.
6. US would use CIA to overthrow communist regimes cheaply rather than massive funded wars. 
   1. 1953: operation Ajax- with British assistance, overthrows the elected government of Iran.
   2. 1954: operation PBSUCCESS- CIA funded and used US aircraft to help overthrow potentially communist government of Guatemala.
   3. 1957-58: CIA tries to overthrow Indonesia’s government but only succeeds to start a destructive civil war.
7. 1953: Eisenhower oversees end of Korean War by signing an armistice that recognized division of country.
8. 1953: Atoms for Peace- He proposed controlling arms race and using atomic/nuclear power technology for peaceful purposes like power generation in developing areas of world.
9. 1954: He decides not to commit US troops to Vietnam in order to prevent a communist victory over French troops. However, he does make US a protector of newly created non-communist South Vietnam.
10. 1955: Open Skies: He proposed that US and USSR allow surveillance overflights of each other’s territories to reduce fears that either nation was preparing for war. Rejected by Soviets.
11. 1957: Eisenhower Doctrine- US promised to use force to repel any armed communist aggression directed at Middle Eastern countries.
   1. 1959- Landed troops in Lebanon to prevent non-existent communist attack on nation.
12. 1960: Soviets shoot down US spy plane that was flying at high altitudes over USSR. US denied it that it was an American plane, only to be proven wrong when Francis Gary Powers was found alive (he was expected to commit suicide if captured). Ruined upcoming conference between the two nations.
13. Pact-o-mania: in an attempt to shore up a strong set of allies, US aligns with 42 nations around the world.




	Kennedy
	1. Economic and Legislative Issues: Kennedy took office in the depths of the 4th major recession since World War II. Business bankruptcies had reached their highest level since the 1930s, farm incomes had decreased 25 percent since 1951, and 5.5 million Americans were looking for work. To stimulate the economy, Kennedy pursued legislation to lower taxes, protect the unemployed, increase the minimum wage, and energize the business and housing sectors. Kennedy believed these measures would launch an economic boom that would last until the late 1960s.
2. Civil Rights: Kennedy concentrated more on enforcing existent civil rights laws than pass new ones. His policy was to delay sending the civil rights bill until his second term.
3. 1962: James Meredith, a black Mississippian and veteran of eight years in the US Air Force, struggled to enroll at the traditionally white University of Mississippi. Kennedy, through his brother Robert, the attorney general, ordered an escort of federal marshals to accompany Meredith to the campus (it came at a cost of 15 hours of violent riot).
4. 1961: Freedom riders start their efforts to desegregate buses in the South. 
5. 1963: 
   * Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., pressed for more civil rights advancement with an urge- “We can't wait any longer.” 
   * “March on Washington” in August 1963 at which King delivered his “I Have a Dream” speech to an audience of a quarter of a million people.
6. 1963: Followed by confrontation of Alabama governor George C. Wallace over integration of state’s flagship university, and the murder of a NAACP field director, made Kennedy submit the civil rights bill to Congress which became law after his death (Civil Rights Act of 1964).
7. Revenue Act of 1964: Another reform that he proposed and became law after his death also known as Tax Reduction Act, in which individual income tax rates were cut across the board by approximately 20%. In addition to individual income tax cuts, the act slightly reduced corporate tax rates and introduced a minimum standard deduction.
8. New Frontier: (largely unsuccessful) policies included  unemployment benefits, aid provided to cities to improve housing and transportation, funds allocated to continue the construction of a national highway system started under Eisenhower, a water pollution control act passed to protect the country’s rivers and streams, and an agricultural act to raise farmers’ incomes.


	1. 1961–1963: Kennedy saw to diplomatic and military initiatives in Europe, Southeast Asia, Latin America and other regions during considerable Cold War tensions.
2. Kennedy's strategy of flexible response, was aimed to reduce the possibility of war by miscalculation. His administration contributed to the peaceful resolution of the Cuban Missile Crisis and refrained from further escalation of the 1961 Berlin Crisis.
3. 1961, Peace Corps: Executive order 10924- volunteer program run by the US government. The stated mission of the Peace Corps includes providing technical assistance, helping people outside the United States to understand American culture, and helping Americans to understand the cultures of other countries. The work is generally related to social and economic development. Volunteers work with governments, schools, non-profit organizations, non-government organizations, and entrepreneurs in education, business, information technology, agriculture, and the environment. This program has affected the way people of other countries view Americans, how Americans view other countries, and how Americans view their own country.
4. Bay of Pigs: An unsuccessful invasion of Cuba in 1961, which was sponsored by the United States. Its purpose was to overthrow Cuban dictator Fidel Castro. The CIA team took false assumptions and were overwhelmed by Castro’s forces. The cover story collapsed and came at a great cost to Kennedy.Yet his administration continued to press for Castro’s ouster, launching the CIA-backed Operation Mongoose in 1961 to harass and destabilize the Cuban regime.
5. Vienna and Berlin: Kennedy met with Soviet premier Nikita Khrushchev in Vienna in June 1961. Khrushchev renewed his threat to “solve” the long-running Berlin problem, an announcement that in turn forced Kennedy to renew his pledge to respond to such a move with every means at his disposal, including nuclear weapons. In a dramatic move two months later, in mid-August 1961, USSR constructed a wall separating East and West Berlin, providing the Cold War with a physical “Iron Curtain”.
6. Cuban Missile Crisis- in 1962, to protect the Castro government and neutralize the massive American advantage in nuclear weapons, Khrushchev ordered a secret deployment of long-range nuclear missiles to Cuba along with Soviet troops, nuclear arms and weaponries. When aerial imagery revealed this, Kennedy spent days with his top advisors and came to the publicized conclusion that US will do anything to protect itself from the threat. He made a blockade/quarantine around Cuba to stop more aid to them. After several days, the 2 sides reached the deal: Khrushchev would remove the missiles from Cuba, and US would not invade Cuba (along with secretly that US will remove its missiles in Turkey targeted at Soviet Union).
7. The Moon landings: Kennedy was also instrumental in the success of the nation's space program. He vowed to have Americans on the moon by the end of the decade. However he does not live to see the landing in 1969.
8. Limiting nuclear tests: In 1963, Kennedy secured an agreement with Britain and the Soviet Union, to limit the testing of nuclear weapons in space, underwater, and in the earth's atmosphere. It signaled the success of Kennedy's efforts to engage the Soviet Union in constructive negotiations and reduce Cold War tensions.
9. Vietnam War: In 1961, Kennedy sends LBJ, his vice president, to meet South Vietnamese President Ngo Dinh Diem. Johnson promised Diem more aid from US to fight against the communist regime. Kennedy swayed from support to a partnership with Diem in order to defeat communism in South Vietnam.


	Johnson
	1. Cultural context (1963-1968): general acceptance of the idea that government could promote the general welfare effectively.
2. The Great Society themes: 
   * Abundance and liberty for all.
   * An end to poverty.
   * An end to racial injustice.
3. The Great Society laws and programs:
   * Civil Rights Act of 1964: (Kennedy’s proposal) outlawed discrimination and segregation in public places. Authorized Justice Department to prosecute states that discriminate based on race or gender.
   * Voting Rights Act of 1965: outlawed barriers to voting such as literacy tests that whites had used to screen out blacks for long time, and promised to prosecute those who used these illegal tacts- it made 15th Amendment real.
   * Unintended Consequence: 
      * 1964: riots in Harlem and Brooklyn.
      * 1965: riots in Los Angeles; Malcolm X assassinated.
      * 1967: dozens of riots across nation: especially in Detroit and Newark.
      * 1968: Martin Luther King Jr. assassinated; causing more riots across America.
   * War on Poverty: expanded on ideas of New Deal, Fair Deal, and New Frontier. Launched by Equal Opportunity Act of 1964 including many programs-
      * Head Start
      * Job Corps
      * Work-study programs for college students.
      * VISTA- domestic version of Peace Corps.
      * Neighbourhood Youth Corps.
      * Adult job training.
      * CAPS: allowed poor people to devise and administer programs that they believed would help them. Local government hates this idea as it took money and power from them.
   * Office of Economic Opportunity (1964): Johnson’s main war on poverty. It had branches including Head Start, which provided education for pre-schoolers form low-income families, Project Upward Bound, which helped high-schoolers from low-income families attend college, and the Job Corps, which gave job training to high school dropouts.
4. Elementary and Secondary Education Act (1965): reform provided more than $1 billion in federal aid to education, with the greatest amount going to school districts with most poor children. Also required schools receiving money to be racially integrated, guaranteeing that minorities benefited from the reform.
5. Environmental Reform: Johnson focussed on cleaning up environmental damage and to beautify the landscape. His wife Lady Bird Johnson urges him to focus on these goals. Wilderness Act of 1964; Land and Water Conservation Act of 1965; Solid Waste Disposal Act of 1965; Motor Vehicle Air Pollution Control Act of 1965; National Historic Preservation Act of 1966; Endangered Species Protection Act of 1966; National Trails System Act of 1968; Wild and Scenic Rivers Act of 1968; Aircraft Noise Abatement Act of 1968.
6. Medicare and Medicaid: offered government subsidized health care to the elderly and the poor. Johnson also worked in Food Stability programs.
7. Immigration reform- stopped the quota system of the 1920s, opening America to people of all ethnicities who had family connections in US. Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965- abolished National Origins formula established in 1920s. Based immigration on job skills and family ties. 
	1. Vietnam War: This war was viewed as a Sino-Soviet plot to conquer the third world and establish communism everywhere. While Truman and Eisenhower initiated US presence in South Vietnam, Kennedy began assigning special forces personnel in South Vietnam. Johnson was committed to keeping an independent South Vietnam. He embraced “containment theory” and believed the domino effect would take place if South Vietnam was not secured by US. He approved NSAM 273, a national security agency, in 1963, which directed the US government to assist the people and Government of South Vietnam to win their contest against the communist North Vietnam threat. He also transferred covert operations from CIA to the military by approving OPLAN 34A-64 in 1964.
2. Gulf of Tonkin Resolution 1964: (response to reports of US naval vessels attacked in Gulf of Tonkin) Congress granted LBJ right to use force in Vietnam, without further Congressional supervision or approval. Passed without any resistance in Senate or House. 
3. US needed to win the war to protect Japan (America’s keystone of military archipelago in Asia) and had interests in Vietnamese rice (Rice Bowl). Moreover, US needed to protect its own credibility and belief that America had power to overcome any foe (Hubris/Arrogance of Power).
4. During summer and fall in 1964, Johnson explained in a peace platform that he had no intention of escalating the war if it was not necessary. 
5. In April of 1965, Johnson gave another speech “Peace without Conquest” stating that he is not the one to start America’s involvement in Vietnam, but it would be dishonorable to what previous presidents have started if he backs out in the middle of a war against communism. Moreover, Johnson claims that leaving Vietnam to fall under communism would shake the confidence of the world in America.
6. In 1965, Johnson authorized The Rolling Thunder, the sustained bombing of North Vietnam. He also started sending Marine battalions and squadrons to fight in the war (first time US forces sent to fight in mainland Asia after Korean war) in search and destroy missions. By end of his presidency, there were 535,000 troops in Vietnam. 
7. Goal was attrition: producing a High Body Count that would eviscerate the NLF armed forces, forcing them to surrender.
8. 1965: Pacification: non-NLF locals felt desire to be honorary Americans for liberal democracy-to win the hearts and minds.
9. 1966: Destruction of NLF Zones: destroy everything in NLF zones regardless of NLF having initiated an attack. Scorched earth policy.
   1. Operation Cedar Falls (Jan. 1967): attacked the Iron Triangle 22 miles northeast of Saigon.
10. 1966-67: Civilian Operations and Revolutionary Development (CORDS): designed to replicate method of NLF in order to gain control of countryside.
11. 1968-1971: Counter Terror operations: operation Phoenix: captured 28,000 alleged NLF operatives, assassinated 20,000 operatives.
12. The Tet Offensive- In observation of Vietnamese Lunar New Year, January 1968, both sides decided for ceasefire, however, NLF broke the deal.
   1. NLF hit 5 of 6 big cities in the South; 36 of 44 provincial capitals, ¼ of 242 district towns
      1. Saigon- 1,000 NLF troops battled 11,000 US troops to a standstill.
      2. Hue - held by NLF for over a month. Produced massive destruction to the city. 10,000 of 17,000 homes destroyed. Massive civilian casualties. 
   2. Results:
      1. Credibility Gap: US public had been told that victory was imminent and that North Vietnam could not stand a chance against US. However, this surprise attack brought down public faith and confidence in the war.
      2. Great Society programs  were not well-funded due to war expenses. Made public hate the war even more.
13. A televised clip showed the American public the brutality with which a supposedly American ally soldier shot a North Vietnamese innocent kid, made the public back home question the meaning of the war. LBJ’s popularity plumped so much that he did not even run for second term in 1968.
	Nixon
	1. Counterculture- a movement made up of mostly white, middle-class college youths who tries to establish a new culture based on love and peace. While some sought to bring change to society, others wanted to leave it and build their own society. “Turn on, Tune in, Drop out” were the words of counterculture leader Timothy Leary, and also the slogan of the movement. This movement emerged in the 1960s as the group sought to create a new lifestyle including flamboyant dress, rock music, drug use (LSD became popular), and free and independent living. They became known as “hippies”. They wanted a society closer to nature and full of love. They went against the mainstream culture which emphasized on individual, competition, achievement, materialistic attachments and obedience.
2. When Nixon took office unemployment as unusually low level of 3.3% but rising inflation. As a result, Nixon adopted a monetary restraint policy to cool the overheating economy through “gradualism”. However this policy did not show quick results.
3. 1970: Nixon signed the into law a bill to create the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) to prevent on-job injuries and deaths. Same year, due to rising concern for the environment led him to propose Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and a National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), and sign amendments to the 1967 Clean Air Act calling for reductions in automobile emissions and the national testing of air quality, along with 1972 Noise Control Act, the 1972 Marine Mammal Protection Act, the 1973 Endangered Species Act, and the 1974 Safe Drinking Water Act.
4. Nixon also proposed a welfare program with a negative income tax, a favorite of economist Milton Friedman. The purpose of the negative income tax was to provide both a safety net for the poor and a financial incentive for welfare recipients to work. One part of Nixon's welfare program did pass and become a lasting part of the system: Supplemental Security Income (SSI) provides a guaranteed income for elderly and disabled citizens. He also advanced in Medicaid, Medicare, and Social Security. 
5. By end of 1970, unemployment rose to 6 percent!
6. When Nixon delayed federal employees pay raises by six months, because his newly appointed chief economic adviser Arthur Burns said if Nixon failed to hold federal spending under $200 billion, Burns would continue to keep the money supply tight to fight inflation, this led to a strike by nation’s all postal workers. Even though he used the army to keep the postal system going on, he eventually surrendered to the workers demands going against balancing budgets as Burns suggested.
7. By middle of 1971, unemployment reached 6.2% and inflation increased even more.
8. When Nixon entered congressional campaign, he was facing issues like unemployment, inflation, and demands for income policies to control skyrocketing wages and prices. In the fall, Republicans gained two seats in Senate, but lost nine in the House (which Nixon blamed on economy).
9. When Nixon picked Treasury Secretary John Connally to be the chief economic spokesperson, Connally said publicly that the president will not increase federal spending, ask Congress for a tax relief, impose mandatory price and wage controls, or make a wage-price board.
10. 1971: Nixon gathered all of his economic advisers at Camp David and came up with a new economic policy that stood out. The NEP violated most of Nixon's long-held economic principles, but he was not concerned about principles when playing politics, and his turnaround on economic issues was immediately and enormously popular. He signed Executive Order 11615 that held a 90 day wage and price freeze, tax cuts, and temporarily closed the “gold window”, preventing other nations from exchanging American dollars in demand for American gold. (first time US government imposed wage and price controls since WWII). To improve internal trade, Nixon called for 10% import tax. Public approval was overwhelming.
11. An economic boom, which began late in 1971, lasted well into the 1972 campaign, long enough for Nixon to harness its benefits into election that November.
12. Another downturn came in 1973, with expansive monetary policies and a shortage of food (due to massive Soviet purchases of American wheat) to cause inflation. Oil prices were rising and then came the Arab oil boycott in october 1973. Inflation climbed to 12.1% in 1974 plunging the economy into recession. 
13. Watergate: Nixon and his administration tried to cover up Nixon’s misdeeds of forming his own secret police without Congressional authorization (later would become one of main reasons for decision to impeach him). This organization was C.R.E.E.P. that included Attorney General John Marshall, Counsel John Deane, and the ex-CIA and ex-FBI agents in it to do the dirty work were called The Plumbers, 5 of whose members broke into DNC Watergate headquarters in 1972, in order to find about the Pentagon papers that would expose secret actions of earlier presidents. Those 5 members did not receive any instruction to break in the headquarters and were caught in the action and this led to Congress, the media, and the independent prosecutor Archibald Cox who had maximum authority in the case to investigating the scandal. Nixon even asked CIA to tell FBI to stay out of the investigation and just wave it off as a “comedy of errors”. Although the White House saved any information from being exposed till Nixon’s reelection in 1972, he had to use (abuse) executive power to keep the upcoming FBI chief L. Patrick Gray from testifying before Senate Watergate Committee to reveal confirmations that he had allowed White House legal counsel to sit in FBI interview of suspects. After he fired several top government officials, his own attorney general resigned which became known as “The Saturday Massacre”. Nixon, compelled to comply, gave in tapes (evidence) which ended his presidency. He resigned on August 8, 1974. Nixon did not go to jail because Ford pardoned him, for which the latter faced a lot of criticism. 
	1. Vietnamization: replacing US troops with South Vietnamese soldiers. He increased US bombing of North Vietnam. 
2. Nixon urged South Vietnam to deny to make the treaty with president Lyndon B. Johnson in 1968, so that he could make the peace treaty later on. He promised them a better deal if they waited until his presidency. In this way, he committed treason. (this was found out much later)
3. Nixon hoped to ease tensions with Soviet Union and People’s Republic of China. He hoped to get Soviet Union and China on America’s side on the issue of Vietnam War, so as to pressure North Vietnam to end the war or settle with a treaty. He would pay China against Soviet Union, Soviet Union against China, both of them against North Vietnam, and possibly North Vietnam against both of them.
4. The tool of Nixon’s control over what he called "the bureaucracy" was his assistant for national security affairs, Henry Kissinger. The two worked so closely together that they were often referred to as "Nixinger." Together, they used the National Security Council staff to consolidate power in the White House.
5. April 1970: (Madman theory) Nixon has America invade Cambodia (to show enough aggression to use nukes to end war) in order to destroy North Vietnamese supply lines.
6. Opening to China (Détente with China): When Nixon saw the deteriorating relations between Soviet Union and China (since 1950s) at the time of taking office, he sensed opportunity and sent out friendly appealing letters to China. He even referred to them as their official name, The People’s Republic of China. Things advanced when Mao Zedong invited an American table tennis team to China for exhibition matches, and Nixon sent Kissinger to secret meetings with Chinese officials. In February 1972, Nixon’s visit to China was widely televised and viewed. 
7. Détente with Soviet Union: The improving relations with China immediately improved relations with USSR shown by an invitation for Nixon for a meeting with Soviet premier Leonid Brezhnev. In fear of American relations getting better with China, the Soviets tried to better their relations with America. The two men signed to monitor the growth of nuclear weapons. The treaties were—Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty and an Anti-Ballistic Missile treaty— these did not end the arms race, but they set an example for future pacts which sought to reduce arms. Nixon also signed agreements on science, space, and trade.
8. 1972: After Nixon’s trip to USSR in 1972, America has signed S.A.L.T. with Soviet Union that limited growth (not reduction) of nuclear arsenals. It was the first Soviet-American treaty of Cold War.
9. Berlin Agreement: 1972: stabilized divided Germany and increased interactions between West Berlin and East Berlin.
10. January 1973: Peace agreement is reached between US, North Vietnam, South Vietnam, and the National Liberation Front. Most US troops leave Vietnam.
11. November 1973: Congress passes War Powers Act, limiting the ability of presidents to use military power without getting approval from Congress.
12. April 1975: North Vietnam defeats South Vietnam in a six-week-long attack, uniting the nation under communist rule.
13. Kissinger and Shuttle Diplomacy: Kissinger went back and forth between the Arabs and Israelis during and after the Yom-Kippur war to arrange lasting peace but only had limited success. Later on, OPEC embargoes on US would increase the oil price by 387%.
	Ford
	1. Pardon to Richard Nixon- September 8, 1974, exactly one month after taking office, Ford reopened old wounds (after saying “Our long national nightmare is over”) when he granted a full pardon for any crimes Nixon had committed when he was president. He claimed to do so because it would look wrong and shameful to execute a trial against an ex-president which could also bring up mixed emotions that could prevent the nation from moving forward. However, this decision faced a tremendous amount of anger and criticism, with people even questioning his judgement to pardon Nixon so soon after taking office. On top of that, his press secretary resigned in protest of the decision. Ford’s popularity plummeted.
2. October 17, 1974: Ford appeared publicly before the Hungate Committee (formed to investigate the pardon), and denied having promised a pardon or having made a deal with the ex-president or his staff.
3. White House Cabinet- Ford decided to temporarily keep Nixon’s administration and gradually replace them with his own members. After six months of staying in Ford’s administration, the president replaced chief of staff Alexander Haig with commander of NATO, Donald Rumsfeld. However, Ford did keep some of Nixon’s appointed key officials such as Roy Ash as head of the Office of Management and Budget and Kenneth Cole as head of the Domestic Council. Unfortunately for Ford, sometimes, his staff and Nixon’s staff clashed.
4. Ford also nominated Nelson Rockefeller, former governor of New York to fill the vacant office of vice president (he did not chose George H. W. Bush upon learning that he accepted money from Nixon slush fund during Senate campaign). Even though conservative Republicans were not pleased with Rockefeller’s selection, they voted for him, and his nominations passed both in House and Senate.
5. Difficulties in Congress: Ford expected him to have significant influence in Congress after serving for long time in House of Representatives. However, apart from pardoning Nixon to begin his problems, in 1974 midterm elections coming a few months after the pardon, Democrats won majority in Congress with 43 seats in House and 61 seats in Senate. He faced a strong democratic opposition in the Congress. 
6. Stagflation- a key domestic issue, the nation’s economy was deteriorating. Ford had to face unemployment, inflation, and energy crisis. During his presidency, inflation and unemployment (foreign competition slowed economic growth and job creation) rose to heights unmatched by any post-WWII year. This was all related to the increasing price of oil. American consumption of oil grew during the 1960s and 1970s, which was being met by buying oil from Middle East (by 1974, 35% oil came from overseas). But in 1973, OPEC issued embargoes against America in protest of Nixon supporting Israel in Yom-Kippur war. Crude oil prices increased tenfold of pre-1973 prices and gas prices doubled. This phenomenon of economic crisis became known as Stagflation.
7. October 1974- Ford proposed tax hike to cut federal spending. He also asked the public to wear WIN (Whip Inflation Now) buttons in hope to acquire public support. But the spending cut was unlikely because the party needed to spend money for campaign for midterm elections. He faced criticism for not working to reduce unemployment which rose to 6.5% by November.
8. January 1975- Ford proposed a tax cut of $16 billion to restart economy. Even after democratic criticism, Congress passed a tax cut of more than $22 billion but raised spending on government programs. For rest of his term, Ford fought a war against Congress’s intentions of additional governmental expenditures by vetoing the bills. In his proposal, Ford also asked for tariff on oil imports, more tax on domestic oil manufacturers, and end of price control on domestic oil. 
9. Revenue Readjustment Act of 1975: another tax cut of $9 billion and affirmation that Congress would limit spending.
10. After much arguing with Congress in 1975, Ford made a deal with Congress in December in an energy bill, that allowed a 12% reduction in domestic oil prices in return for authority to control domestic oil prices for 40 month period. 
11. By 1976, economy had begun to recover. Consumer price index dropped from 9.1% in 1975 to 5.8% in 1976. By January 1977, unemployment dropped to 7.4%, down from 9%. 
12. Busing segregation- Busing segregation was existent in early and mid-1970s, especially in Boston. In 1974, a Boston judge ordered immediate integration of segregated schools. In the community of Boston, this was a spark of an upcoming disaster. Riots broke out following the order. Democrats called on Ford to intervene. However, Ford chose not to get involved in the hot issue. He was pro-integration but against busing because he believed that federal government can only segregation in buses by law, not by circumstance. Although he was ready to use military power if situations got worse, it never came to that for him, showing that Ford administration was more willing for a less activist federal government and letting local and state government handle issues.
13. When New York City went bankrupt in 1975, Ford denied federal aid despite the advice of his vice president Rockefeller. When the state government announced their plan the same year to put the city on a more stable financial ground, Ford suddenly granted $2.3 billion in aid. Although he explained his new decision as appropriate by giving the aid when the local government made a more stable plan, his real reason was to satisfy Senator James Buckley of New York, whose vote was crucial to him in the upcoming election. However, Republicans saw the aid as Ford swaying away from conservative principles.
14. Ford and his wife were fierce supporters of ERA (Equal Rights Amendment), a proposed ratification that had been submitted in 1972. It was designed to ensure equal rights of every citizen regardless of gender. However, ERA fails to win ratification due to lack of state legislators. 
15. Ford’s position on abortion was to let each of the 50 states decide it for themselves. This was also his opinion when he was a House minority leader when he opposed the 1973 Supreme Court case of Roe v.s Wade. 
16. CIA Director William Colby put together a  report of all of CIA’s operations during Nixon’s presidency. Seymour Hersh, a investigative journalist, made the report public in December 1974. Because of growing pressure from public to investigate the CIA, Ford created the Rockefeller Commission. The Rockefeller Commission marked the first time that a presidential commission was made to investigate the national security apparatus. The Commission's report, submitted in June 1975, mostly defended the CIA, although it noted that "the CIA has engaged in some activities that should be criticized and not permitted to happen again." The press criticized the commission for not including the organization’s assassination plots.
	1. Cold War- Ford continued the détente policies with China and Soviet Union. The profitable visit of Nixon to China in 1972 was bolstered by Ford’s visit in December 1975. Even though trade agreements collapsed between America and Soviet Union, Ford continued Strategic Arms Limitation Talks (SALT) with Soviet Union leader Leonid Brezhnev. Ford met Brezhnev at the November 1974 Vladivostok Summit, where the two leaders agreed for another SALT treaty. However, opponents of detente, led by Senator Henry Jackson, opposed Senate consideration of the treaty until after Ford left office. Ford and Brezhnev met again in July 1975 at the Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe. At that conference, US, Canada, and most European countries signed the Helsinki Accords, in which the signers agreed to uphold human rights and the sovereignty of the parties to the accords. The talks of SALT II were continued in Carter administration.
2. Vietnam- American offensive operations against North Vietnam ended with Paris Peace Accords, signed in January, 1973. The accords declared a ceasefire across North and South Vietnam, and required the release of American prisoners of war. The agreement guaranteed the territorial independence of Vietnam and, like the Geneva Conference of 1954, called for national elections in the North and South. The Accords allowed a 60 day period for the total withdrawal of U.S. forces. The accords had been negotiated by Kissinger and North Vietnamese military rulers.
3. In December 1974, North Vietnamese forces attacked South Vietnam. Ford’s request from Congress to aid $722 million to retaliate was denied, however evacuation aid was granted. President Thieu of South Vietnam resigned in April 1975, blaming lack of US support for the fall of Saigon, the capital. Two days later, Ford announced, in a speech at Tulane University, that Vietnam war is over for America.
4. Ford ordered the evacuation of all US personnels and anyone trying to escape communist forces. About forty thousand Americans and South Vietnamese were evacuated by plane. In the final Operation Frequent Wind, Air American and military helicopters took evacuees to US navy ships in a 24 hour period from April 29-30, 1975. Saigon fell right after that, and the Vietnam war, being waged since 1950s, came to an end. Many of the Vietnamese evacuees were allowed to enter the US under the Indochina Migration and Refugee Assistance Act. The 1975 Act gave $455 million toward the costs of settlement of Indochinese refugees. Ford placed embargoes on the united communist Vietnam, and blocked Vietnam’s involvement in United Nations.
5. Mayaguez incident: May 1975, after the fall of Saigon and the Khmer Rouge conquest of Cambodia, Cambodians seized the American merchant ship Mayaguez in international waters. Ford sent Marines to rescue the crew, but the Marines landed on the wrong island and met resistance while, unknown to the U.S., the Mayaguez sailors were being released. In the operation, two military helicopters carrying the Marines were shot down, and 41 U.S. servicemen were killed and 50 wounded while approximately 60 Khmer Rouge soldiers were killed. Despite the American losses, the operation was seen as a success in the US and Ford enjoyed a boost in his approval ratings, at the expense of others’ lives.
6. Axe Murder incident in Panmunjom- this village is situated in a demilitarized zone between the two Koreas. For some time by then, seeing US difficulties in Vietnam, North Korea was trying to force America to remove its troops from South Korea. In August 1976, North Korean forces killed two US officers and injured South Korean guards who were engaged in cutting a tree in village’s Joint Security Area. North Korean leader Kim Il-sung used this as an opportunity to present this as American aggression and asked that US remove its forces from South Korea, at a conference in the Non-Aligned Nations. Kissinger said that US would seem weak if they did not take action, and Ford agreed with that. After considering some options, the Ford administration decided that it was necessary to respond with a huge show of force. A large number of ground forces went to cut down the tree, while at the same time the air force was deployed, which included B-52 bomber flights over the village. The North Korean government backed down and later officially apologized.
7. Middle East- The Cyprus dispute turned into a crisis with the Turkish invasion of Cyprus, causing extreme strain within the NATO alliance. Turkey had invaded Cyprus following the Greek backed 1974 Cypriot coup d'état military group. The dispute put the US in a difficult position as both Greece and Turkey were members of NATO. When Greece pulled itself out from NATO military structure, Ford vetoed a Congress bill to cut Turkish aides in fear of tampering US-Turkish relations. He vetoed a second bill however a compromise was reached to continue aid for some time (Turkish relations were disrupted until 1978). 
8. During the Yom-Kippur war in the Arab-Israeli conflict, Kissinger’s shuttle diplomacy was showing little progress. In 1973, Egypt and Syria launched a joint surprise attack against Israel, intending to recapture the land lost in the Six-Day War of 1967, but lost to the Israeli forces.
9. March 1975- Ford cabled the Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, that America is disappointed in the failure of Israel to make negotiations, and so America, in order to protect its interests and maintain its policy in the region, will notify [Rabin] of their decision. 
10. Reassessment - In March, Ford announced this new policy that will stop further aid to Israel. For 6 months between March and September 1975, America made no new negotiations with Israel. However on May 21, 76 Senators wrote a letter to Ford asking him to comply with Israel’s demand of $2.59 billion for military aid. It was, since the 1974 ban on arms to Turkey, the second major congressional intrusion upon the President's foreign policy decisions. After much argument, the Sinai Interim Agreement (Sinai II) between Egypt and Israel was formally signed.
11. Angola- civil war broke out in Angola after gaining independence from Portugal in 1975. The CIA gave aid to UNITA and FNLA groups to fight against the Soviet Union and Cuban backed MPLA. When Congress learned of this aid, it cut it off. Congress’s role in ending the CIA presence showed the legislative branch’s increasing influence in foreign affairs.
12. After Carnation Revolution, Portugal withdrew from East Timor. Then, Indonesia invaded East Timor when it declared its independence from Portugal. A policy of arms sales to the Suharto regime began in 1975, under Ford. 90% of Indonesian weapons were provided by US in their invasion. Ford's military aid came to about $30 million annually to Indonesia, and arms sales increased exponentially under president Carter which continued until 1999.
	Carter
	1. 1976 campaign- Carter wins 50% to Ford 48%. Carter was a naval officer, businessman, and the governor of Georgia. He wins over Ford because the American public was still bitter about Ford’s pardon to Nixon, and Carter was an anti-Nixon. He was honest and humble. People thought of him as an uncorrupt government official and liked the idea that he was deeply religious and a moral person.
2. Economic problem #1 Stagflation due to Energy Crisis: it is important to note that Carter did not create, but inherited this problem which started under Nixon and accelerated under Ford.
   * Increased spending from Vietnam War and Great Society programs led to inflation in which the value of the dollar went critically down.
   * The high cost o f oil and gas due to OPEC oil embargo on US (because US supported Israel in Yom-Kippur war) led to stagnation in which economic growth diminished and gas prices reached the sky.
   * This problem led to consumers, regular American’s day to day life hurting. People now spent most of their money on gas (because most Americans needed to drive to get from one place to another) and so that money not spent on other businesses or consumption of goods not related to driving. The economy suffered greatly.
3. The economy was a both sided cliff; if money was inserted to help stagnation, inflation would flare up, and if money was pulled out to help inflation, the stagnating economy would suffer.
4. Carter decided that Americans needed to sacrifice their comfort for once in order to stabilize the economy. He decided to treat inflation first by taking our money, then treat stagnation by lowering income taxes and the dollar stabilizes. The public hated this technique for they were not patient or ready to suffer in order to better the economy.
5. May 10, 1979, the House voted against giving Carter authority to produce a standby gas rationing plan. The following day, Carter delivered remarks in the Oval Office describing himself as shocked and embarrassed for the American government due to the vote. Then House Republicans labeled his remarks as unfit for a President to say in public, after which Carter called on the public to believe in his programs. New York Times described this as a crisis of confidence between Congress and the President.
6. July 1979: Carter’s “Crisis of Confidence” speech tried to address the feelings of helplessness that many Americans felt. People found it very pessimistic. It became known as the “malaise” speech, though he never used that word.
7. Carter surrounded himself with loyal but honest Georgia aides and never developed good relations with Congress.
8. Health care and welfare- Proposals contemplated by the Carter administration include a minimum income, a federal job guarantee for the unemployed, a negative income tax, and direct cash payments to aid recipients. 
9. In reaction to the energy crisis and growing concerns over air pollution, Carter signed the National Energy Act (NEA) and the Public Utilities Regulatory Policy Act (PURPA). The purpose of these laws was to encourage energy conservation and the development of national energy resources, including renewables such as wind and solar energy. He also installed a 32-panel solar power heating system on the White House roof in June 1979 to promote the use of solar energy.
10. In October 1979, Carter signed the Department of Education Organization Act into law, establishing the United States Department of Education. During his tenure, the percentage of nondefense dollars spent on education was doubled. Another measure passed during the Carter presidency, the Child Nutrition Amendments Act of 1978, introduced a national income standard for program eligibility based on income standards prescribed for reduced-price school lunches.
	1. September 1977- Carter signed two treaties with Panama that 1) restored Panama’s control over the canal zone (met with discontent back home) and 2) promised to gradually hand over operating control of the Canal.
2. A quest for peace in middle east:
   1. Carter invited Egypt’s Anwar Sadat and Israel’s Menachem Begin to US to create a framework for lasting peace.
   2. September 1978: Camp David Accords- Egypt and Israel sign a peace treaty, but Sadat is assassinated as a result and the issue remained unresolved. 
3. January 1978: A revolution in Iran topples the pro-American leader(the Shah) and results in creation of an Islamic Republic led by Ayatollah Khomeini. 
   1. Carter angered Iranians by allowing the Shah to come to US for cancer treatment,
   2. Angered, the Iranians storm US embassy and take 58 hostages, holding them captive for rest of Carter’s term. Carter ordered a failed military attempt to rescue the hostages; the failure makes him seem ineffective and brought down American confidence.
4. Cold War resulmes (the decline of détente)- 
   1. USSR cracked down on dissidents and forbade immigration of Jews to Israel. Carter emphasized human rights in his policy and made tensions with Soviets. 
   2. December 1979-USSR invaded Afghanistan- US feared Soviets wanted to control oil in the Persian Gulf.
   3. Carter withdrew SALT II treaty, stopped exports of grain to USSR resumed registration for the draft, and boycotted the 1980 Moscow Olympics.
   4. June 1979- SALT II treaty (failed)- lowered ceiling on number of nuclear missiles each country could have.
   5. Soviet invasion of Afghanistan made Carter to abandon SALT II and build new MX missiles (these were mov=bile and moved across rail lines) and deploy Trident nuclear submarines with missile capacity. This led to new arms race.
   6. January 1980- The Carter Doctrine- Carter vows to fight to protect vital oil supplies in Persian Gulf area even if it took arming and siding with radicals called Mujahideen, and giving birth to groups like ISIS, Taliban, and Al-Qaeda (which ironically attack US with the same weapons it was provided with to fight USSR).
5. Détente with China - Continuing a rapprochement begun during the Nixon administration, Carter sought closer relations with the People's Republic of China (PRC). The two countries increasingly collaborated against the Soviet Union, and the Carter administration tacitly consented to the Chinese invasion of Vietnam. In 1979, Carter extended formal diplomatic recognition to the PRC for the first time. This decision led to a boom in trade between the United States and the PRC, which was pursuing economic reforms under the leadership of Deng Xiaoping. After the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, Carter allowed the sale of military supplies to China and began negotiations to share military intelligence.
6. South Korea- One of Carter's first acts was to order the withdrawal of troops from South Korea. South Korea and Japan both protested the move, as did many members of Congress, the military, and the State Department. Carter believed that the soldiers could be put to better use in Western Europe, but opponents of the withdrawal feared that North Korea would invade South Korea in the aftermath of the withdrawal. After a strong backlash, Carter delayed the withdrawal, and ultimately only a fraction of the U.S. forces left South Korea.
7. Indonesian occupation of East Timor-The Carter administration resumed and dramatically increased arms sales to the Indonesian Suharto government during its occupation of East Timor. American arms sales to the Suharto regime averaged about $60 million annually during Carter's term, more than double the figure of Ford's yearly sales.
	Reagan
	1. Reagan appealed more to the American public than Carter. He promised to bring the country out of the economic mess and he did not point out problems in his speeches. Moreover, as soon as Reagan took office, the Iranians released the American hostages, to show that Carter would have never been able to do that.
2. Reagan declared that "government is not the solution to our problem; government is the problem." on the issue of national economic crisis. Reagan’s attack on Carter’s economic record persuaded blue collar voters to vote for him.
3. “Reaganomics” and taxation: Reagan implemented economic policies based on supply-side economics, advocating a laissez-faire economy and free-market policy. He was influenced by new economists such as Arthur Laffer, who rejected the more popular methods of Keynesian economists. Reagan relied on Laffer and other economists to argue that tax cuts would reduce inflation. Upon taking office, Reagan's first priority was the passage of a bill that would cut federal income tax rates. The Economic Recovery Tax Act of 1981, signed into law in July 1981, cut the top marginal tax rate from 70% to 50% and lowered the estate tax and the corporate tax.
4. Reagan Recession- Even before Reagan's economic program was signed into law, the Federal Reserve identified the weak monetary policies that had led to what economists called "The Great Inflation" of the 1970s as Public Enemy No. 1. When the Federal Reserve under Paul Volcker tightened interest rates to treat inflation, the economy plunged into recession and Reagan's popularity dipped with it. Given the monetary circumstances Reagan inherited, it is unlikely that a recession could have been avoided. But the Reagan tax bill worsened the deficit. Reagan's prediction that the tax cuts would increase revenues missed the mark, at least during the 1981-82 recession. The 1982 budget deficit was $113 billion—$30 billion more than when Carter left office. Unemployment rose to 11 percent and Reagan’s popularity naturally collapsed.
5. Reagan believed that tight interests rates would eventually work out. Over time, despite the costs of the recession, the Fed's policies did work. Tight money and reduced inflation started the boom that began in 1983 and was still on when Reagan left the White House in 1989.
6. 1982: After leveling out the economy, Reagan supported the Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act (TEFRA), a measure presented as a tax reform bill that was also a tax increase, partly because he feared the national debt will increase too much. Congress passed TEFRA, and Reagan signed it into law. In 1984, he supported another tax increase, again packaged as reform. Since deficits continued to be an issue, Reagan signed another bill that raised taxes, the Deficit Reduction Act of 1984. After failing in an aborted attempt to reduce some Social Security benefits, Reagan teamed with House Speaker Tip O'Neill to bring down Social Security costs under control. Reagan appointed a commission, headed by Alan Greenspan, that came up with a remarkable compromise that slightly raised the retirement age, boosted payroll taxes, and taxed the benefits of high-end recipients for the first time.
7. Civil Rights issues- 1982: Reagan made ill-considered remarks about Martin Luther King, Jr., as Congress debated making King's birthday a national holiday. The same year the Reagan administration supported a lawsuit brought by University of South Carolina against the Internal Revenue Service over its long-standing policy of denying tax breaks to segregated schools. The policy originated in 1970 in an effort to combat the development of segregated private schools, which had become popular among whites.
8. Counselor Ed Meese and Attorney General William Smith persuaded Reagan to instruct the Justice Dep. to remove its support for IRS, they failed to see the consequences. Many Americans, black and white, protested the administration's actions. Reagan retracted and supported legislation to maintain existing policies. While this legislation failed to grow in Congress, the Supreme Court ruled against Bob Jones University and in favor of the IRS.
9. Tax Reform Act of 1986: The act simplified the tax code by reducing the number of tax brackets (people who were taxed) and reducing a number of tax breaks (people who received concession). The top rate was dropped to 28%, but capital gains taxes were increased on those with the highest incomes from 20% to 28%. The net result was the removal of six million poor Americans from the income tax roll and a reduction of income tax liability at all income levels.
10. Reagan was determined to decrease government spending and roll back or dismantle Great Society programs such as Medicaid and the Office of Economic Opportunity. Reagan cut the budgets of non-military programs including food stamps, federal education programs and the EPA. 
11. Social Security Amendments of 1983, which received bipartisan support focussed on rejecting Social Security privatization and other changes to the program, but recommended expanding the Social Security base ( including exempt federal and nonprofit employees), raising Social Security taxes, and reducing some payments.
12. New Federalism- sought to shift the responsibility for most social programs to state governments, but found little support in Congress. The federal budget, along with the national as a whole, also suffered from the early 1980s recession. From 1981 to 1989, the national debt rose from $998 billion to $2.857 trillion.
13. “Black Monday”: successor of Paul Volcker, Alan Greenspan attempted to further attack inflation by increasing interest rates even higher setting off a stock market crash in October 1987 (stabilized in the following weeks). 
14. Immigration Reform and Control Act 1986- The act made it illegal to knowingly hire or recruit illegal immigrants, required employers to verify to their employees' immigration status, and granted amnesty to approximately three million illegal immigrants who entered US.
15. Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1986- part of Reagan’s “war on drugs”, this act granted $1.7 billion to fight drugs, and ensured a mandatory minimum penalty for drug offenses. Reagan also signed the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988, which further increased criminal penalties for drug use and established the Office of National Drug Control Policy.
16. December, 1981, Reagan signed Executive Order 12333. This presidential order broadened the power of the government's intelligence community; mandated rules for spying on United States citizens, permanent residents, and on anyone within the United States.
	1. Reagan was unattentive and “lazy” when it came to foreign affairs. He did not give clear orders or instructions to his staff. This resulted in policy being set by staffers around Reagan with different views and agendas. White House aide James Connon, who interviewed about 20 people from the White House including senior officials concluded that Reagan was only interested in watching movies and television, not his work.
2. Escalation for Cold war- Reagan ordered a massive buildup of the United States Armed Forces and implemented new policies towards the Soviet Union: reviving the B-1 Lancer program that had been canceled by the Carter administration, and producing the MX missile. In response to Soviet deployment of the SS-20, Reagan oversaw NATO's deployment of the Pershing missile in West Germany. Together with the United Kingdom's prime minister Margaret Thatcher, Reagan denounced the Soviet Union in ideological terms. In a speech to the National Association of Evangelicals on March, 1983, Reagan called the Soviet Union "an evil empire." Despite this, the Reagan administration started START with Soviet Union. Unlike the SALT treaties of the 1970s, the proposed START treaty would require both sides to reduce their nuclear arsenals, as opposed to setting upper limits.
3. March 1983: Reagan introduced the Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI), a defense protect that would have used ground and space-based systems to protect the US from attack by nuclear ballistic missiles. Reagan believed that this defense shield could make nuclear war impossible. However due to concerns about cost and effectiveness, it was canceled in 1993.
4. September 1983: Soviet Union shot down Korean Air Lines Flight 007 after it flew through Soviet airspace. This was in anger over the development of SDI (which they saw as a violation of Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty) by US and afterwards Soviet Union broke arms control talks with US.
5. Reagan Doctrine- Reagan administration provided aid to anti-communist resistance movements in an effort to push back Soviet backed communist governments in Africa, Asia, and Latin America. Reagan sent the CIA's Special Activities Division to Afghanistan and Pakistan, where CIA was crucial in training, equipping, and leading Mujahideen forces against the Soviet Army in the Soviet Afghan War. By 1987, the US was sending over $600 million a year, as well as weapons and combat expertise to Afghanistan.
6. Central America- Reagan and his foreign policy team were concerned about the potential influence of Cuba on countries such as Grenada, Nicaragua, and El Salvador. To counteract the influence of Cuba, Reagan launched the Caribbean Basin Initiative, an economic program designed to aid countries opposed to Communism.
7. Invasion of Grenada in 1983- Reagan justified the invasion as necessary in accusations that Cuba posed as a threat to US and the illegal overthrow and execution of Grenadian Prime Minister. The invasion was poorly carried out, for it took over 10,000 US forces 8 days of fighting, suffering 19 fatalities and 116 injuries, fighting against several hundred lightly armed policemen and construction workers.
8. Middle East- Reagan sent US Marines into Lebanon to maintain peace after Israel continued to inflict violence in its invasion of Lebanon even after Israel, PLO, and Syria agreed to withdraw forces from Lebanon. In late 1983, two bombings killed 241 American soldiers and 58 French soldiers. The international peacekeeping force was withdrawn from Lebanon in 1984. A group known as Hezbollah began to take American hostages by 1985. Meanwhile the defense department back home made the Powell Doctrine stating US will use military intervention as a last resort. 
9. Iran-Contra scandal- Reagan administration authorized CIA Director William J. Casey to arm the right-wing Contras (US backed and funded right-wing rebel groups against left-wing Sandinistas) early in his tenure. Boland Amendment 1982: made by Congress, prohibited CIA and defense department from aiding the Contras. When Hezbollah, a paramilitary Iran backed group, captured seven Americans as hostages, Reagan sold over 2000 missiles to Iran without informing Congress in hope that the nation would pressure Hezbollah to release the hostages. The money from the missiles was given in aid to the Contras- another violation of law. Hezbollah released four but captured 6 more Americans. The missile transactions became public in October 1986 after which Reagan appointed Tower Commision to investigate them. The Commission’s report in early 1987 confirmed the administration’s arms deal with Contras and Iran, going against the arms embargo on Iran. It brought down public faith and trust in Reagan. Even though Reagan broke the law, he was given a “pass” by the Congress and not impeached.
10. 1985: Geneva Summit- good attitudes between Reagan and Gorbachev.
   1. 1986- Rekjavik: led to an agreement on nukes, but talks broke down over SDI. Reagan was not ready to give up the program even though it was inefficient. The two leaders briefly discussed on destroying all US and Soviet nuclear weapons.
11. End of Cold war- Soviet Union was under unstable leadership until Mikhail Gorbachev came to power in 1985. Although the Soviet Union had not accelerated military spending during Reagan's military buildup, their large military expenses, in combination with collectivized agriculture and inefficient manufacturing, were a heavy burden for the Soviet economy. Gorbachev was much less radical than his predecessors. In 1986, he introduced his two reforms of perestroika and glasnost, which would change the political and economic conditions of the Soviet Union. He also realized that in order to reduce military spending and prevent nuclear war, he needed to restart negotiations with US. Reagan was more than eager for this change. He hoped that more trade and commerce with Soviet Union would make democracy stronger and dissolve and end communism. At the 1987 summit in Washington, Reagan and Gorbachev signed the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty (INF Treaty), in which both parties agreed to significant cuts in their respective nuclear arsenals. This treaty boosted Reagan’s popularity in aftermath of Iran-Contra affair. They also discussed the potential strategic arms treaty, START, but SDI continued to be a major point of disagreement.
12. 1988- Moscow- good relations. Eased Cold War tensions. Openness led to an end of communism! Soviets pulled out of Afghanistan.


	Bush I
	1. Monetary policy- At $220 billion in 1990, the deficit had grown to three times its size since 1980. The government did not have the revenues for any large, domestic ventures. Bush had not campaigned on any specific domestic programs, and he continued to stress "a limited agenda," that included volunteerism, education reform, and anti-drug efforts. Since he pledged during the campaign not to raise taxes, he found himself in the difficult position in trying to balance the budget and reduce the deficit without imposing additional taxes on the public. He also had a Congress controlled by the Democrats. While Republicans favored in cutting domestic spending, the Democrats wanted to raise taxes on the richest Americans. The fiscal vision was further damaged by the relatively mild recession of the early 1990s, which began in 1990. By 1992, interest and inflation rates were the lowest in years, but by midyear the unemployment rate reached 7.8% while 14.2% lived in poverty.
2. OBRA-90: Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990- raised the top income tax bracket from 28% to 31%. It included cuts to domestic spending. This law formed the groundwork for the budget surplus of late 1990s.
3. Rodney King Riot 1992: The unrest began in South Central Los Angeles in late April, after a trial jury acquitted four officers of the Los Angeles Police Department for usage of excessive force in the arrest and beating of Rodney King, which had been videotaped and widely viewed in TV broadcasts. Thousands of people rioted over a 6 day period following the announcement of the verdict. Widespread looting, assault, and murder occurred in the riots, and estimates of property damage were over $1 billion. With local police overwhelmed in controlling the situation, Governor Wilson sent in the California Army National Guard, and President Bush sent the 7th Infantry Division and the 1st Marine Division. After that, order and was restored throughout L.A. County, but 63 people were killed, 2383 people were injured, and more than 12,000 were arrested.
4. Civil Rights- Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990: created legal protections against discrimination for those with disabilities. The act also required that employers and public accommodations to make "reasonable accommodations" for the disabled. Bush vetoed the Civil Rights Act of 1990, which was intended to help women and minorities prove discrimination in hiring. However, he signed the law in 1991, when Congress re-introduced it.
5. Environment- Bush authorized the Clean Air Act. The legislation sought to treat acid rain by requiring decreased emissions of chemicals such as sulfur dioxide. He also signed the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 in response to the Exxon Valdez oil spill. However, he was criticized for his opposition to stricter auto-mileage standards.
6. “Thousand points of light”- Bush used this phrase to incite confidence and uplifted spirits in Americans. This became a volunteer program nonprofit organization.
7. Immigration Act of 1990- made a 40% increase in legal immigration to the US. The bill more than doubled the number of visas given to immigrants on the basis of job skills, and advocates of the bill stated that it would help fill projected labor shortages for various jobs.
8. Bush became a member of the National Rifle Association in 1988 and had campaigned as a "pro-gun" candidate with the NRA's approval during the 1988 election. In March 1989, he placed a temporary ban on the import of certain semi automatic rifles. 
9. Educational Excellence Act of 1989- Bush proposed this act which was supposed to have rewarded high achieving high school students for federal grants. However, due to lack of Republican support, it did not pass in Congress.
10. Taxes- Bush raised taxes to $133 billion in 1992. He promised in 1988, “Read my lips, No new Taxes!!”. Bush sided with Democrats for new taxes and increases domestic spending. Conservatives were outraged, and Bush’s popularity declined. He seemed to betray Reaganomics, something the Republicans favored. When his policies did not prevent economic recession (Bush recession), he became unpopular among people. The popularity he gained from Persian Gulf War began to crumble.
	1. Panama- Manuel Noriega was suspected of being a spy for Fidel Castro, who Reagan failed to remove. In May 1989, Panama held democratic elections, in which Guillermo Endara was elected president; but results were then nullified by Noriega's government. Bush sent in 2000 troops to do regular military exercises in Panama. Bush then removed an embassy and ambassador from the country, and sent more troops to Panama to pave the way for another invasion. Noriega suppressed the military coup attempt and massive protests in Panama against him, but after a U.S. serviceman was shot by Panamanian forces in December 1989, Bush ordered 24,000 troops into the country with an objective of removing Noriega from power; "Operation Just Cause" was a large-scale American military operation. The army successfully gained control, and Endara took power.
2. End of Cold War- December 1989, just after the fall of the Berlin Wall, Bush met with Gorbachev in a conference on the Mediterranean island of Malta. The administration had been under intense pressure to meet with the Soviets expecting something big to happen. After Gorbachev stated clearly that Soviet Union would never start a “hot war” against US, and that it wants to pursue cooperation with US, Bush was certain that the fall of communist empires in Poland, Hungary, Czechoslovakia, Bulgaria and Romania were sign of Soviet Union’s weakness. For the remainder of his term, he worked with Gorbachev believing that the Soviet leader was the key to peacefully ending the Soviet domination Eastern Europe.
3. Bush pushed for German reunification alongside West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl. Gorbachev resisted the idea of a reunified Germany, especially if it became part of NATO. After negotiations among Bush, Gorbachev, and Kohl, Gorbachev agreed to allow a reunified Germany that would also be a member of NATO. Gorbachev also agreed to pull Soviet troops out of Germany. Germany was reunified in October 1990. 
4. Dissolution of Soviet Union- Soviet Union was reluctant to give up Lithuania to its independence demands in 1990, as that would significantly reduce its power. Since Bush did not want to hinder relations with Gorbachev in fear of Soviet Union backing off from German reunion, he mildly opposed Soviet occupation and warned in his labeled “Chicken Kiev” speech against “suicidal nationalism”.
5. July 1991, the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START I) was signed by Bush and Gorbachev in Moscow. The treaty took nine years in the making and was the first major arms agreement since the signing of the Intermediate Range Nuclear Forces Treaty by Reagan and Gorbachev in 1987. The agreements in START would reduce the strategic nuclear weapons of the United States and the USSR by about 35% over seven years, and the Soviet Union's land based intercontinental ballistic missiles would be cut by 50%. Bush described START as "a significant step forward in dispelling half a century of mistrust".
6. The Soviet Union dissolved in December 1991, marking the end of the Cold War. Fifteen new states emerged from the Soviet Union, of which Russia was the largest and most populous. Bush and Russian President Boris Yeltsin met in February 1992, declaring a new era of friendship.
7. China- in the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989 students and other individuals protested in favor of democracy and intellectual freedom. June 1989, the People’s Liberation Army violently suppressed a demonstration in Beijing, after which US in response imposed economic sanctions and cut military aides.
8. Nicaragua- Reagan had intended to overthrow socialist Daniel Ortega by aiding the right-wing Contra, resulting in Iran-Contra affair. Bush and Secretary of State Baker, along with support from Congress, cut aides to Contras in promise from Ortega that he will hold free elections in 1990.
9. When Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait in 1990, and Iraq did not withdraw from Kuwait as US asked, Bush’s 5 main points gathered support and green light from Congress to use military force. In 1991, the allied forces started their air and ground attacks, effectively pushing back Iraqi forces in 100 hours, after which Bush stopped the offensive.
10. NAFTA- 1987, US and Canada reached a free trade agreement that removed tariffs between them. The trade agreement would generate economic resources necessary to enable Mexico's government to overcome problems of funding and enforcement of its labor laws. 
11. Operation Desert Shield- August, 1990: Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait. Iraq owed billion to Kuwait for its support in the Iran-Iraq war. Kuwait produced 10% of world’s oil and bordered Saudi Arabia, which made 30% of world’s oil. US organized 30 nations to protect Saudi Arabia and liberate Kuwait. Bush commanded 690,000 troops, 540,000 of which were US soldiers. 
12. Desert Storm- US had supported Iraq in Iran-Iraq war. It had helped build Iraq into 4th largest army in the world.  The Coalition- Troops were sent in the gulf from US, Saudi Arabia, France, UK, Kuwait, Egypt, Pakistan and other countries. Ships, air force, and medical units were brought from Canada, Italy, Argentina, Australia and some other countries. Japan and Germany sent financial support. 1991- 37 days of bombardment in which 76 aircrafts damaged or crashed. The goal was to destroy property, not people. Saddam eventually backed and surrendered after long ground battle. His power was limited and contained.﻿Ramansh Sharma                APUSH Spring Term Research Paper                          Date-4/25/18
                                Part III
        America had fought side by side with Soviet Union during World War II against the Axis Powers of Germany, Japan, and Italy. However, American democracy and Soviet communism were two clashing different ideologies that resulted in more than half a century of tensed period during which the whole world was petrified from the fear of a World War III erupting. Although both the superpowers deliberately despised each other, neither side was willing to start World War III. Both America and Soviet Union, instead of fighting a full on nuclear war, fought through small proxy wars, through political and economic means, and with Space race. The United States, during the Cold War against Soviet Union and its allies, was led by nine major Presidents from 1945 to 1993. Although all American Presidents during the Cold War had their high and low times in regard with their domestic and foreign policies, Lyndon B. Johnson and Dwight D. Eisenhower were arguably the best Presidents in terms of their overall achievements to benefit the American interests and its people. Furthermore, Ronald Reagan and Richard Nixon are conceivably the worst Presidents during the Cold War era.  Johnson worked for more public satisfaction with Great Society programs, made Medicaid and Medicare to help elderly and disabled, and made immigration reforms. Although he was not the cause of it, Johnson gets pulled into Vietnam war to counteract which he uses military force, special intelligence, and covert operations. Eisenhower followed Modern Republicanism through with he enacted various social welfare programs, education reform, and exercised federal power to enforce decisions. He also built up the army through military Keynesianism, followed the New Look policy of asymmetrical containment, saw to the end of Korean War, and sent covert operations to help other countries fight communism. Reagan used Reaganomics and taxation to help the economy but which results in the Reagan Recession, and fought against Social Security, Medicaid, and Medicare. The Cold War escalated under him and, apart from which he was involved in the Iran-Contra scandal. Under Nixon, the economy struggled to stabilize, unemployment rose, and the legendary Watergate scandal was exposed. He used Madman Theory to fight against Vietnam, OPEC raises oil prices for US as a result of Kissinger’s continued effort to bring peace in Middle East causing energy crisis in America, and he committed treason by secretly asking South Vietnam to deny to make the treaty with Lyndon B. Johnson in 1968, so that he could make the peace treaty later on.         
Lyndon Johnson worked for more public satisfaction with Great Society programs, made Medicaid and Medicare to help elderly and disabled, and made immigration reforms. Johnson obtained passage of sweeping new civil rights laws, tax reductions to stimulate the economy in the Great Society, a multi billion dollar anti-poverty program [1]. He also issued federal aid for all aspects of education, and increased social security benefits that included medical care for the aged [2]. The themes of this program were abundance and liberty for all, an end to poverty, and an end to racial justice. The public loved these programs, and he used that to his benefit. He made it clear in his inaugural address, 
“I do not believe that the Great Society is the ordered, changeless, and sterile battalion of the ants. It is the excitement of becoming-always becoming, trying, probing, falling, resting, and trying again--but always trying and always gaining….If we fail now then we will have forgotten in abundance what we learned in hardship: that democracy rests on faith, that freedom asks more than it gives…Our fate as a nation and our future as a people rests not upon one citizen but upon all citizens” [3] 
Through his unifying diction, he brought a sense of unity and strength among the American people after the mournful assassination of Kennedy. Among the programs of Great Society were Civil Rights Act of 1964, (Kennedy’s proposal) that outlawed discrimination and segregation in public places. It authorized Justice Department to prosecute states that discriminate based on race or gender, and the Voting Rights Act of 1965, that outlawed barriers to voting such as literacy tests that whites had used to screen out blacks for long time, and promised to prosecute those who used these illegal tacts- it made the 15th Amendment real. Although this was mostly warmly welcomed by people, there were unintended consequences such as the hail of riots and protests from 1964 to 1968 in Harlem, Los Angeles, Detroit, and all over America in which Malcolm X and Martin Luther King Jr. were also assassinated. Johnson’s Office of Economic Opportunities Act in 1964, was an effort of his famous “war on poverty” movement. The Act had branches including Head Start, which provided education for pre-schoolers form low-income families, Project Upward Bound, which helped high-schoolers from low-income families attend college, and the Job Corps, which gave job training to high school dropouts. A similar act expanded on ideas of New Deal and New Frontier. Launched by Equal Opportunity Act of 1964, included work-study programs for college students, Neighbourhood Youth Corps, adult job training, and CAPS, which allowed poor people to devise and administer programs that they believed would help them. Johnson not only gave direct aid to the needy, but also made them self-sufficient. After enacting the Medicare and Medicaid acts, and the he talked about it in his first state of the union address in 1964, “Let this session of Congress be known as the session which did more for civil rights than the last hundred sessions combined….as the session which declared all-out war on human poverty and unemployment in these United States; as the session which finally recognized the health needs of all our older citizens” [4]. He was clearly sending out an optimistic feeling on what is to come from the Great Society programs. While Truman and Eisenhower initiated American presence in Vietnam, Kennedy sent special forces there [5]. In order to stand by the containment theory and protect the independence of South Vietnam, he approved the NSAM 723, which a national security agency, in 1963, which directed the American government to assist the people and Government of South Vietnam to win their contest against the communist North Vietnam threat. He also transferred covert operations from CIA to the military by approving OPLAN 34A-64 in 1964. When American destroyers were reported to have been attacked in August 1964 by the North Vietnamese torpedo boats in Gulf of Tonkin, Johnson passes the The Gulf of Tonkin Resolution in the same month that gave him the authority to use force in Vietnam, to “prevent further aggression” [6]. He launched a retaliatory attack with U.S. aircraft and stepped up aid to South Vietnam [7]. America needed to win the war in order to protect Japan and belief that America had power to overcome any foe. Meanwhile, the country was divided from this war. While some wanted an immediate end of American bombing of North Vietnam and a stop to the draft, others wanted America to step up the war and win a clear cut victory [8]. In his famous 1965 speech, Peace without Conquest, Johnson said, “stating that he is not the one to start America’s involvement in Vietnam, but it would be dishonorable to what previous presidents have started if he backs out in the middle of a war against communism” [9]. Moreover, Johnson claims that leaving Vietnam to fall under communism would shake the confidence of the world in America [10]. This speech secured him enough popular support for a war he did not want, but could not see how to avoid. Johnson goes on to make CORDS, which was designed to replicate the method of NLF in order to gain control of the Vietnamese countryside. Operation Phoenix was successful as it captured about 28,000 NLF operatives, and assassinated 20,000 of them in order to make a high body count hoping the NLF would surrender, as part of the attrition goal. However, Johnson faced huge humiliation in the Tet Offensive problem in 1968. In 1968, both sides had agreed to ceasefire in observation of Lunar New Year. However, the NLF and Viet Cong broke the deal, hitting five out of six big cities in the South and inflicting massive destruction in the cities. This resulted in a credibility gap as the public had been told that victory was imminent and that North Vietnam could not stand a chance against U.S. However, this surprise attack brought down public faith and confidence in the war. Televised images of this Tet Offensive and U.S. allies killing innocent Vietnamese people with brutality in war zones, made American public question the morality and purpose of the war [11]. Moreover, the Great Society programs were starting to see less funding for them as war expenses increased. Even though Johnson’s popularity decreased so much that he did not even run for re-election in 1968, he was the best President in the Cold War. During a period of unrest, he brought back American confidence and faith in the government (especially after Kennedy’s assassination) with social welfare programs such as Medicaid and Medicare that helped the needy and education reforms. He also fought back North Vietnamese aggression handed down to him from earlier Presidents. His goal was to preserve American status as a superpower fighting against communism, which he accomplished. 
        Dwight Eisenhower was the next best President during the Cold War. Under his presidency, American experienced a steady economic growth, development of more automobiles and higher standards of living in suburban areas, and a boost in American culture under the Eisenhower Equilibrium. He also took measures to increase the number of jobs, exercised strong federal authority, and advanced in the space race. Eisenhower also practiced military Keynesianism, New Look at containment theory with Brinkmanship ideas and Massive Retaliation, military efforts against North Vietnam, attempts to make peace with Soviet Union, and the use of Eisenhower Doctrine in Middle East to fight against communism. Eisenhower 1956 Interstate Highway Act (actually intended to serve as evacuation technique in a nuclear war) which created a lot of jobs, shortened travel time, and channeled city growth.. Under his “equilibrium”, spectator sports became very popular, TV became part of national culture rock and roll took off with both black and white performers, which made the youth culture have less respect for cultural and racial boundaries [12]. After the Brown vs. Board of Education declared segregation in schools illegal, huge protests erupted around the country. In 1957, Eisenhower sent army of troops into Arkansas when state governor Orval Faubus refused to desegregate schools following court order. This display of federal authority led by year’s end to the admission of the Little Rock Nine students. He did it for presidential authority, not morality. It sent a clear message that state powers do not go above federal laws [13]. The Civil Rights Act of 1957 established a permanent Civil Rights Commission and a Civil Rights Division of the Justice Department [14]. After the Soviet Union launched their unmanned satellite Sputnik I in 1957 into space, Eisenhower advanced quickly into the space race. American launched Explorer I in 1958. Later the same year, Congress created NASA and passed National Defense Education Act to fund scientific and foreign language studies [15]Eisenhower was determined to remove all the “Reds” from the government [16]. This was because of the Red Scare brought about by Senator Joseph McCarthy, whose movement, which became known as McCarthyism, suspected that the government and the military were filled with communist spies. Guilt by association was the new reason for arrest. After the arrest and conviction of Alger Hiss from state department, and Klaus Fuchs, an atomic bomb researcher, the public began to feel insecure in their own country. By the autumn of 1953, when the Fort Monmouth hearings were taking place, the government had removed more than two thousand federal employees [17]. Moreover, in July 1953, following the death of Stalin in march and a quiet threat by Eisenhower to use the atomic bomb, North Korea signed a truce with the United Nations [18]. Therefore, Eisenhower used massive retaliation techniques in which he threatened North Korea with a nuclear attack at places and times of its own choosing, thus preserving the element of surprise. In this way, he oversaw the end of Korean War. He also approved NSC 162/2 in 1953, which reflected Eisenhower's desire for a "long-haul" approach to security planning that would maintain a constant level of military preparedness, consistent with the health of the U.S. economy. It differed from NSC 68, approved by Truman. Truman's advisers believed that Soviet military capabilities would reach a maximum relative to those of the US in the mid-1950s. Eisenhower rejected the idea that one period would be any more dangerous than another and urged his planners to think in terms of a Soviet threat that was economic as well as military, thus being prepared for either one of those threats. He believed that America should focus on areas of the world that really mattered, where U.S. could win without hurting its economy. In fear of the Domino Theory, Eisenhower believed in Brinkmanship, risking nuclear war to intimidate China and Soviet Union. He also issued CIA covert operations such as Ajax in 1953 to overthrow Iran’s government leader MOhammed Mossadegh (pro-Soviet) and replace with friendly despotic shah of Iran [19], PBSUCCESS in 1954 to overthrow potentially communist government of Guatemala, and the CIA effort to overthrow Indonesia’s government in 1957-58 but only starting a civil war. As for Vietnam, in 1954, he decided not to commit US troops to Vietnam in order to prevent a communist victory over French troops. However, he does make U.S. a protector of newly created non-communist South Vietnam. Eisenhower also worked upon peaceful coexistence with Soviet Union. In 1953, Eisenhower made the Atoms for Peace act which proposed controlling arms race and using nuclear power for peaceful powerful generation instead of warfare. He proposed Open Skies in 1955, which would allow boths sides to surveillance flights over each other’s territories which would reduce fears of war, but was rejected by the Soviets. This partially led to the 1957 Eisenhower Doctrine, that promised American force to counteract any communist aggression in Middle Eastern countries. In 1960, Eisenhower was humiliated in front of the whole world when the pilot, Francis Powers, of the U.S. plane that Soviet Union shot down, did not commit suicide and confirmed he was carrying out a stealth mission. Eisenhower denied this claim, but Soviet Union knew the truth which affected the two nations’ next meeting. To counteract this, Eisenhower made the pact-o-mania alliance with 42 other nations to strengthen their stand against communism. Therefore, Eisenhower worked upon desegregation in America by exerting federal power, promoting educational reforms, advancing into the space race, fighting against communism in Korea, Vietnam, and Middle East, and sending CIA to overthrow potentially communist governments without a full fledged war. He maintained a balance between aggressive force and peaceful negotiations to protect America from falling to communist dominance, meanwhile preserving the public faith and confidence in the government. 
        Ronald Reagan enacted a lot of criticized and disliked domestic policies many of which led to the Reagan Recession. He was especially criticized for his determination to cut back on Medicare and Medicaid. He was also involved in the Iran-Contra scandal which brought back the “American nightmare” that Gerald Ford declared had ended after the Watergate scandal. Reagan’s own cabinet members often disliked him. Martin Anderson, Reagan’s economic adviser and his most ardent supporter, described working for Reagan as, “chaotic, rudderless enterprise, lacking in coherence or direction….made no demands, and gave no instructions” [20]. He appealed more to the public than Carter because he promised to bring the country out of the devastated economy. Just like the New Federalist he wanted to be, he clearly mentioned in his inaugural address that, 
“In this present crisis, government is not the solution to our problem; government is the problem. From time to time we've been tempted to believe that society has become too complex to be managed by self-rule, that government by an elite group is superior to government for, by, and of the people. Well, if no one among us is capable of governing himself, then who among us has the capacity to govern someone else?” [21]
His rhetorical questions towards the reader imply that he does not want the federal government to cure the economy. He wanted a supply side economy with laissez faire and free market policy. He was influenced by economist Arthur Laffer, an opposer to the popular Keynesian methods. The Economic Recovery Tax Act of 1981, signed into law in July 1981, cut the top marginal tax rate from 70% to 50% and lowered the estate tax and the corporate tax. When the Federal Reserve under Paul Volcker tightened interest rates to treat inflation, the economy plunged into recession and Reagan's popularity dipped with it in what came to be known as the Reagan Recession. Reagan's prediction that the tax cuts would increase revenues missed the mark, at least during the 1981-82 recession. The 1982 budget deficit was $113 billion—$30 billion more than when Carter left office. Unemployment rose to 11 percent and Reagan looked like a liar to the public. However, Reagan believed that tight interests rates would eventually work out. Over time, despite the costs of the recession, the Fed's policies did work and started the economy boom that began in 1983. However, the people’s attention swavered to the Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 1982, and the Deficit Reduction Act of 1984 that raised taxes in order to bring down growing national debt [22]. In 1982, Reagan made ill-considered remarks about Martin Luther King, Jr., as Congress debated making King's birthday a national holiday and supported University of South Carolina against IRS denying them tax breaks because it was a segregated school. These actions brought down Reagan’s popularity. The Tax Reform Act of 1986 removed six million poor Americans from the income tax roll and reduced the income tax liability at all income levels. When it became obvious that federal spending needed to be reduced, Reagan proposed cuts in  Medicaid and the Office of Economic Opportunity. Reagan cut the budgets of non-military programs including food stamps, federal education programs and the EPA. He also lost his support from immigrants when he signed the Immigration Reform and Control Act 1986 that reduced immigration job benefits and knowingly hiring illegal immigrants. Under Reagan, the Cold War escalated. He called Carter’s foreign policy a “sad chapter” [23] in American history. He issued a massive build up of the U.S. Armed Forces and implemented new policies towards the Soviet Union: reviving the B-1 Lancer program that had been canceled by the Carter administration, and producing the MX missile. In response to Soviet deployment of the SS-20, Reagan oversaw NATO's deployment of the Pershing missile in West Germany. He also started the SDI program in 1983 which was supposed to would have used ground and space-based systems to protect the US from attack by nuclear ballistic missiles. Reagan believed that this defense shield could make nuclear war impossible. However due to concerns about cost and effectiveness, it was canceled in 1993. Under Reagan Doctrine, U.S. provided aid to anti-communist resistance movements in Africa, Asia, and Latin America. Reagan sent the CIA to Afghanistan and Pakistan, where CIA was crucial in training, equipping, and leading Mujahideen forces against the Soviet Army in the Soviet Afghan War. By 1987, the US was sending over $600 million a year [24]. Reagan was also bitterly remembered for the Iran-Contra scandal in which he authorized CIA Director Casey to arm the right wing Contras, who were rebel groups against left wing Sandinistas, early in his tenure. Later on U.S. sold 2,000 missiles to Iran for them to convince Hezbollah (a Lebanese militant group under Iran) to release American hostages, and the money from the missiles were given to the Contras going against the Boland Amendment of 1982 (which prohibited that), secretly. When this became public in 1986, he appointed the Tower Commission which confirmed the deals [25]. He testified against knowing about them (which was true even though he influenced the deals), and was pardoned by Congress. It became known as the second worst scandal after Watergate. Reagan was not a popular President among the public. They had lost the hope of truth and dignity from the government once again. Even though Reagan did not succeed in most of his efforts, he did initiate the economic boom which began in 1983, and the INF treaty with Soviet Union’s leader Mikhail Gorbachev in Washington Summit 1987 that reduced both sides’ nuclear arsenals. However, his overall stance against Social Security, Medicaid, and Medicare, the Reagan Recession, the extensive interest rates, and the Iran-Contra scandal earned him an opinion of a poor President during the Cold War.
        Richard Nixon was arguably the worst President of the Cold War era. Even though Nixon issued numerous acts to protect and preserve the environment, Nixon failed in his domestic policies for he was held responsible for high unemployment levels, stagflating economy, and the most infamous scandal of all- the Watergate scandal. In his foreign affairs, Nixon’s invasion of Cambodia was met with massive resistance back at home among the new counterculture university students. Nixon passed the Occupational Safety and Health Administration to prevent on-job injuries, along with EPA, NOAA, and amendments to the Clean Air act in 1967 in efforts to rising concern for the environment. He also signed the 1972 Noise Control Act, the 1972 Marine Mammal Protection Act, the 1973 Endangered Species Act, and the 1974 Safe Drinking Water Act. By the end of 1970, unemployment rose to 6 percent! When Nixon delayed federal employees pay raises by six months, because his newly appointed chief economic adviser Arthur Burns said if Nixon failed to hold federal spending under $200 billion, Burns would continue to keep the money supply tight to fight inflation, this led to a strike by nationwide postal workers. Even though he used the army to keep the postal system going on, he eventually surrendered to the workers demands going against balancing budgets as Burns suggested. This shows his weak grasp over domestic issues and public protests. Instead of taking a bold step and facing the protests, Nixon gave up and let the economy go down the drain. By middle of 1971, unemployment rose to 6.2 percent and inflation increased even more! When Nixon was about to enter congressional campaign, he was facing issues like unemployment, inflation, and demands for income policies to control skyrocketing wages and prices. Chief Economic Spokesperson John Connally publicly said that “the president will not increase federal spending, ask Congress for a tax relief, impose mandatory price and wage controls, or make a wage-price board”. Nixon had to gather all his economic advisers at Camp David to make the NEP, design  Executive Order 11615, and ask for 10% import tax to gather just enough public approval for his reelection in 1972. Another downturn came in 1973, with expansive monetary policies and a shortage of food (due to massive Soviet purchases of American wheat) to cause inflation. Oil prices were rising and then came the Arab oil boycott in october 1973. Inflation climbed to 12.1% in 1974 plunging the economy into yet another recession. The economy was evidently Nixon’s weak spot. However, in his speech, The Challenge of Peace, he mentions, 
“To give that system a powerful new stimulus, I shall ask the Congress….the enactment of the Job Development Act of 1971. I will propose to provide the strongest short term incentive in our history to invest in new machinery and equipment that will create new jobs for Americans: a 10 percent Job Development Credit for 1 year, effective as of today, with a 5 percent credit after August 15, 1972” [26]
which showed that he has some plans to improvise. Nixon said in his inaugural address regarding Vietnam, “We are caught in war, wanting peace. We’re torn by divisions, wanting unity. We see around us empty lives, wanting fulfillment” [27]. He uses the pronoun “we” to try to talk to America as a common man who is troubled by the war just as they are. He carried out Vietnamization, pulling out American troops and replacing them with South Vietnamese to fight the battles, and increasing bombing on North Vietnam. When Nixon bombed Cambodia in 1969 with B-52 bombers, in order to show enough aggression to portray use of use nukes to end war, and cut supply lines to North Vietnam [28]. Students at University of Berkeley widely protested this move and were met with brutal force from the police to dismantle them. The public was now getting increasingly angry about the war and the measures Nixon was taking to combat it. In 1967, Martin Luther King Jr. said in his Beyond Vietnam speech, 
“Somehow this madness must cease. We must stop now. I speak as a child of God and brother to the suffering poor of Vietnam. I speak for those whose land is being laid waste, whose homes are being destroyed, whose culture is being subverted. I speak for the poor of America who are paying the double price of smashed hopes at home and death and corruption in Vietnam. I speak as a citizen of the world, for the world as it stands aghast at the path we have taken. I speak as an American to the leaders of my own nation.” [29]
Reverend King invokes Buddhist ideas in this speech to convey one meaning- the war is not worth it. Nixon naturally was losing his popularity as a result of this. And regarding, the Watergate scandal - Nixon and his administration tried to cover up Nixon’s misdeeds of forming his own secret police without Congressional authorization. This organization was C.R.E.E.P. that included Attorney General John Marshall, Counsel John Deane, and the ex-CIA and ex-FBI agents in it to do the dirty work were called The Plumbers, 5 of whose members broke into DNC Watergate headquarters in 1972, in order to find about the Pentagon papers that would expose secret actions of earlier presidents. This led to Congress, the media, and the independent prosecutor Archibald Cox who had maximum authority in the case to investigating the scandal. Nixon even asked CIA to tell FBI to stay out of the investigation and just wave it off as a “comedy of errors”. Although the White House saved any information from being exposed till Nixon’s reelection in 1972, he had to use (abuse) executive power to keep the upcoming FBI chief L. Patrick Gray from testifying before Senate Watergate Committee to reveal confirmations that he had allowed White House legal counsel to sit in FBI interview of suspects. After he fired several top government officials, his own attorney general resigned which became known as “The Saturday Massacre”. Nixon, compelled to comply, gave in tapes (evidence) which ended his presidency, and he resigned in August 1974. He could have admitted to making the police and still saved himself. But when he started lying and obstructing evidence, he stepped right into his demise. Moreover, in the Chennault Affair, Nixon is known to have urged South Vietnam to deny making a treaty with Lyndon Johnson, and wait till Nixon’s presidency for a better deal. These facts show that Nixon was a troubled person, who as an overall President, failed America in both domestic and foreign affairs.
        In conclusion, it does not depend on one event that can define a President’s everlasting perception in Cold War. It is shaped throughout their presidencies. Lyndon Johnson effectively is the best Cold War President as he not only oversaw an end to Korean War and presented a strong start in Vietnam War, but also enacted numerous policies and acts to help the public in social and economic ways. Dwight Eisenhower is another great President during the era for he not only oversaw public development of works and creation of jobs, but also gave aid to countries fighting against communism and sent CIA operations to overthrow communist regimes. Reagan is arguably a poor President since he devastated the economy and plunged the country in Reagan Recession and brought back the horrors of another scandal with his own Iran-Contra affair. Nixon is the worst Cold War President as he not only poorly handled the Vietnam War and the American economy, but also gave America a true “nightmare” in the Watergate Scandal that took away American confidence in the government. This is important because America, right now, is in a similar situation with President Trump struggling to fight against North Korean communist regime. Understanding, the Cold War Presidents better, will allow America to plan out its steps more carefully in the future.


























        










Bibliography
Books
1. Whitney, David C., and Robin Vaughn Whitney. The American Presidents. 11th ed. Pleasantville, NY, Montreal: Readers Digest Association, 2009. 
2. Dunn, John M. The Vietnam War. A History of U.S. Involvement. San Diego, CA: Lucent Books, 2000.
3. Reeves, Thomas C. Twentieth-century America: A Brief History. New York: Oxford University Press, 2000.
4. Zeinert, Karen. McCarthy and the Fear of Communism in American History. Springfield, NJ: Enslow Publishers, 1998.
5. Tygiel, Jules. Ronald Reagan and the Triumph of American Conservatism. New York: Pearson Longman, 2006.


Primary Sources
1. Johnson , Lyndon B.,  “Inaugural Address”. Inaugural Address at U.S. Capitol, Washington DC. January 20, 1965.
2. Johnson , Lyndon B.,  “State of the Union Address”. State of the Union Address at U.S. Capitol, Washington DC. January 20, 1964.
3. Johnson , Lyndon B.,  “Peace Without Conquest”. Speech at John Hopkins University, Baltimore. April 7, 1965.
4. Reagan , Ronald W.,  “Inaugural Address”. Inaugural Address at U.S. Capitol, Washington DC. January 20, 1981.
5. Nixon, Richard M., “Challenge of Peace”. Speech at U.S. Capitol, Washington DC. January 15, 1971.
6. King Jr., Martin L., “Beyond Vietnam”. Speech at Riverside Church, New York City, New York. April 4, 1967.














________________
[1] David C. Whitney and Robin Vaughn Whitney, The American Presidents (11th ed. Pleasantville, NY, Montreal: Readers Digest Association, 2009), 339.
[2] Ibid, 339.
[3] Lyndon B. Johnson,  “Inaugural Address” (Inaugural Address at U.S. Capitol, Washington DC. January 20, 1965).
[4] Lyndon B. Johnson,  “State of the Union Address” (State of the Union Address at U.S. Capitol, Washington DC. January 20, 1964).
[5] David C. Whitney and Robin Vaughn Whitney, The American Presidents (11th ed. Pleasantville, NY, Montreal: Readers Digest Association, 2009), 348.
[6] Ibid, 349.
[7] Ibid, 349.
[8] David C. Whitney and Robin Vaughn Whitney, The American Presidents (11th ed. Pleasantville, NY, Montreal: Readers Digest Association, 2009),  349.
[9] Lyndon B. Johnson,  “Peace Without Conquest” (Speech at John Hopkins University, Baltimore. April 7, 1965).  http://www.jstor.org/stable/27552240.
[10] Ibid.
[11] John M. Dunn, The Vietnam War. A History of U.S. Involvement (San Diego, CA: Lucent Books, 2000), 56-58.
[12] Thomas C. Reeves, Twentieth-century America: A Brief History (New York: Oxford University Press, 2000), 157.
[13] Thomas C. Reeves, Twentieth-century America: A Brief History (New York: Oxford University Press, 2000), 163.
[14] Ibid, 163. 
[15] Ibid, 165.
[16] Karen Zeinert, McCarthy and the Fear of Communism in American History (Springfield, NJ: Enslow Publishers, 1998), 92.
[17] Ibid, 92.
[18] Thomas C. Reeves, Twentieth-century America: A Brief History (New York: Oxford University Press, 2000), 152.
[19] Thomas C. Reeves, Twentieth-century America: A Brief History (New York: Oxford University Press, 2000), 167.
[20] Jules. Tygiel, Ronald Reagan and the Triumph of American Conservatism (New York: Pearson Longman, 2006), 117.
[21] Ronald W. Reagan.,  “Inaugural Address” (Inaugural Address at U.S. Capitol, Washington DC. January 20, 1981).
[22] Jules. Tygiel, Ronald Reagan and the Triumph of American Conservatism (New York: Pearson Longman, 2006), 176.
[23] Ibid, 115. 
[24] Jules. Tygiel, Ronald Reagan and the Triumph of American Conservatism (New York: Pearson Longman, 2006), 174.
[25]Ibid, 175.
[26] Richard M. Nixon, “Challenge of Peace” (Speech at U.S. Capitol, Washington DC. January 15, 1971).
[27] John M. Dunn, The Vietnam War. A History of U.S. Involvement (San Diego, CA: Lucent Books, 2000), 76.


[28] John M. Dunn, The Vietnam War. A History of U.S. Involvement (San Diego, CA: Lucent Books, 2000), 78.
[29] Martin L. King Jr., “Beyond Vietnam” (Speech at Riverside Church, New York City, New York. April 4, 1967).﻿We did not have to stand up to answer the teacher’s question. I was baffled when I saw my new classmate answer the teacher while slacking in their desks. I never really fit in. Whether it be eighth grade or high school, I never really found myself completely alike my friends. Some topic would always emerge in our conversations, that would put me out of the discussion group. Whether it be knowledge about politics, or sharing funny anecdotes, I would be out of the circle. It was partly because when I came to the U.S. in 2014, I did not know the teen culture of America. It would take me several days in middle school to learn that I did not have to get up from my seat to answer the teacher. Weeks to learn the cafeteria routine, sitting at respective tables with your homeroom class, getting in lines for food, chocolate milk cartons, and mozzarella cheese sticks. It was so much different from India where we were just let loose in the lunch break to roam around the building, be wherever we wanted. It was both restrictive and freeing at the same time. 
My father got a transfer here from his company, for about three to four years. As a result, I came to U.S. on a visa. My middle school friends would bombard me with questions about my home country, the language I spoke, and why I was speaking in an Indian accent. It took me months to change to an American accent, during which I would be ridiculed daily in some light manner or other, with mimicry or explicit indication, for my Indian accent. They would often confuse my religion ‘Hindu’, and my native language ‘Hindi’ for one another. It all changed when I came to Bronx Science.
In high school, my ease for math and science was not taken to be weird. My teachers were proud of me, my parents even more. Bronx Science gave me what I really needed, a home. It was a haven for learning, nourishing young curious minds to bloom. The more I delved into my science classes, the more I wanted to learn, the more knowledge I wanted. I remember in sophomore year, AP Chemistry, I was really intrigued by the molecular bonding of carbon atoms to form molecules of diamond. I raised a question regarding the structural stability of the carbon atoms to bond in this way, to which my teacher responded, “Find the answer for extra credit”. To this, the whole class turned towards me and asked to repeat my questions for they wanted to do the extra credit too. I did the research too, but I did not submit it for extra credit. I do not want my curiosity to have a price on my transcript. It was moments like these that defined me as the person I am today. It was all going well. I mixed with my friends, who shared similar passions with me. I was almost indistinguishable from my friends except that I was from India, not a citizen. This small detail grew to be defining in my senior year.
When looking for colleges, all of my friends did not have to worry about the money in it. They were going to get financial aid. Whereas I had to look for multiple other parameters- which college was I interested in, which one was affordable, which one is affordable for an international student. My father told me that if the fee would be too high, I would have to resort to going back to India for college with my family. If I was lucky enough, I would get to stay here for college. So when applying to colleges, I have to explain my very unusual circumstance to them-: I am originally from India. I am here in U.S. on visa and considered an international student but I have attended all four years of a public high school in New York City. Meanwhile I was helping my father deal with the stress of me being able to attend college her, and consoling my friends at high school dealing with stress over college. No one asked me if I was going under any stress. And I did not complain. I played the wise one and absorbed all my stress. I released it in badminton team, or in a physics test, some miraculous and helpful ways  I deal with stress. 
I am from a middle class family. If I can attend college with the my father’s income going towards the college fee, and my brother’s private high school tuition fee next year when they return to India, it will truly be a dream come true. With a college education, I can advance my interests in computer science and physics, and one day hopefully, work at NASA, where I hope to solve the world’s energy problems with advanced space research. Some of my friends say I dream too big to which I reply,  “one can never dream too big”.﻿Ramansh Sharma                        College Essay Draft                                Date-9/25/18
With a packet of pretzels in my left hand, and my phone in my right hand, I sat hopeless at a table with four seniors. Five laptops, five brilliant minds, the entire internet at our fingertips, and we had nothing. It was five in the evening and we were facing a seemingly impossible dilemma.
I knew two of them from the badminton team already. My hackathon teammates were taking Post-AP Game Programming while I was just a shy freshmen with minimal knowledge of HTML and CSS. Our project was truly exceptional. A piano tiles game with integrated hand motions like up, down, and rotations that were detected by a motion sensor armband. The first part was easy. They wrote the code for the basic piano tiles game in just four hours. But then came the time to attach and implement the motion sensor into our program. None of us had ever connected a hardware to a software, let alone something as convoluted as a motion sensor armband. No one on our team, not even the supposedly gaming legends and nerdy seniors, had the slightest idea on how to position the hand motions at regular intervals in the game. 
It was five in the evening, and we could hear the joyous laughs and roars of other teams as they triumphantly showed their finished products to the supervisors to get a headstart before the final presentations. All this happened while we sat there like mummies for two long hours. Crumbs of pretzels and spills of gatorade all over us, we waited for a miracle to snap us out of our slumber. The hackathon was nearing its end and if we did not figure out a solution fast, our game would be demoted from something unique and fascinating to a something, nothing. It seemed as if my first ever experience of a hackathon would have been ruined, my to-be interest in computer science demolished. My team and I had little to no hope left of deciphering this riddle of the Sphinx. As I was imagining walking back to my vallo bus and then towards my house after the hackathon, my fantasy suddenly dissolved. Then, it struck me like Zeus’s lightning bolt. I realized we were not able to place the motions because we were trying to randomly generate it with an algorithm. What we needed to do instead, was use an incremental mathematical series to position the hand motions with respect to the tiles to maximize the difficulty level. 
I did not believe myself at first, I mean, how could I, a freshman, solve something I have never had any experience with, while my experienced teammates pulled their hair out trying to do it. With much courage, I approached the team leader, and asked him if I can show him something. When he eagerly said yes, to obviously take a moment away from the problem, I had second thoughts of leading him back into it. However, I ignored my second thoughts and explained my theory to him on the classroom whiteboard with a marker. When I finished writing the ten centimeter equation, his eyes lay open as wide as the Argo itself. He slowly turned towards me, his head lowering to look into my eyes. The next thing I knew, he was thanking me out of his breath for the solution. I would have perceived such praise to be sarcastic if he didn’t hurry back to the other seniors, drag them to the whiteboard and let them too, marvel at the solution. I was rendered unnoticed after that, for the coders immediately jumped into the implementation, with only thirty minutes remaining. Be that as it may, I felt content, having contributed meaningfully to the team. 
After that, it took them about fifteen minutes to write the ten lines of code that effectively jump started my interest in this field. We finished the game, and rewarded ourselves with freshly delivered pizzas in the cafeteria. As expected, the taste of the pizza was exquisite, comparable to the essence of ambrosia itself. In a way, it felt like they specially came to congratulate us. To my surprise, the team quoted me as brilliant and creative in the “how did you do it” section of submitting the game. This was the first time I was honored for a contribution I made. Not only did it make me feel important, it started a fire inside me, a fire of confidence. That fire has never gone out, and it never will.
As the three fates deemed it so, we were able to give a breaktaking presentation of the game because of a talented gamer we had on our team. Aki, as he was called, scored 152 points in the game while most of us only reached about 25. The judges, along with the audience were perplexed by our performance. The presentation ended, and after a mere two seconds of silence, the judges stood up, and gave us a standing ovation, followed by the rest of the audience.
 It is often said in Greek mythology that belief in the gods is what keeps them immortal forever. On this day, our team was immortalized by the belief and praise of the audience. Our team placed first, each of us winning an iPad Mini, and an unforgettable picture with the CEO of Major League Hacking. I learned about teamwork that day. I learnt that I don’t always have to be the leader or the best guy in a team to be a contributing teammate. All I had to do was to be curious and open minded.




















I have never been afraid of heights. It just didn’t make sense. I rather enjoyed climbing up and down trees and park poles as a child. Although the climbing was tedious and time consuming, the jump back down would be the best moment of my evening. Climbing down rapidly, or sometimes just jumping off, I remember feeling the rush of wind on my face, and the weightlessness carrying me away. But there was one kind of height that spooked me out more than any other fear - airplanes.
         I do not like the window seat on a plane for many reasons. First, while taking off, the quick ascension of the plane changes the viewpoint very abruptly. That, along with the upward force from the plane really scares me. I would often get air sick and end up using more than one air sickness bag. Because of that fear, my family did not take many airplane trips but rather bus and car trips. After five short years of no airplane trips, we finally went to the west coast this past summer. It was August, I was at the peak of my athleticism and had just finished an interesting summer programming course. It was a weeklong trip to San Francisco, Los Angeles, and Las Vegas. I did not realize until much later, that the scariest part for me on this trip would not be on an airplane, but on a helicopter. Surprisingly, our flights to Las Vegas were quiet. But two days after we got there my parents revealed to me a “surprise” trip. One to the majestic depths and jagged cliffs of the Grand Canyon. 
After hours of crying and wailing, my parents finally forced me into agreeing to get into the helicopter ride that would take us in the canyon in exchange for a new smartphone plan and letting me go to the hotel swimming pool alone. Our helicopter ride started smoothly, not much different from a ferris wheel ride. As we went towards the canyon, I kept reporting small details of the ride to myself like “twenty feet ascension” and “tilt towards the right, small nose dive”. This all proved to be worthless to keep me calm when the dreadful moment came. As were about to head back to the helipad station, the pilot tilted the helicopter almost ninety degrees to the right. At this very moment, I saw the mistake of taking the window seat again, literally - I could see four thousand feet straight down the tallest canyon in the world. All that separated me and absolute demise was a three inch sheet of polycarbonate glass. But I had an unanticipated realization. I was not scared anymore. Maybe it was the nice swim I took the previous night or the new plan my parents promised me, but I just was not scared anymore. As a matter of fact, I liked thinking over and over in my head that I was atop the tallest canyon in the world, in just a helicopter. The sight was no less unnerving, but my childhood bravery returned, and I regained my confidence. On the flight back to New York, I did not sleep one minute of the six hour flight. I gazed out the window, marvelling at the world above the clouds, trying to take in all the scenes I could after staying away from the clouds for five long years. I looked and looked, stared and absorbed, the spectacle atop the skies.






























































It was my eight birthday when I held my first 3 by 3 Rubix cube. Looking at the nine tiles of six colors jumbled across six sides mesmerized me just like the Sirens did to Odysseus. It was a moment of pure delight and bewilderment. I spent a total of ten hours that day trying to solve the cube. Although my efforts went in vain, I realized I could not give up. This was the first time I had a sense of sheer defeat which only urged me to give all my power into solving the cube. I spent hours each day trying to figure out patterns and techniques to align red on one side, blue on the opposite side, and white on the top without scrambling the other colors. The cube became my childhood workplace. After coming back from school, I would go to my room, sit in silence trying to solve this mystery that lay in front of me. It was about this time that I learned to admire my problems rather than hate them. It built a sense of maturity into me, partly because solving a Rubix cube required a sincere and courageous yet resilient mind.
After a few weeks, I nearly gave up. But one of my close friends thankfully saw this, and taught me a valuable lesson. He explained to me that despite all my efforts, I had made one small mistake. I had never asked anyone for help. He pointed out to me a point so prized, that I remind it to myself every morning since that day- it is not unworthy to ask for help from a friend, for collaboration is a human evolutionary behavior meant to be advantageous, it is what separates us as superior beings. I learned that day that by asking him for help, I am not showing vulnerability or weakness, but rather I am accepting my need for help, which portrays my own strength and self-confidence. Within two days, I could solve the 3 by 3 Rubix cube under five minutes using algorithms my friend had taught me. His advice helped me to cruise through the unknown. These cubes were just a mode of entertainment for me until I encountered the mirror cube.
The mirror cube is the pinnacle of Rubix cubes with instead of having six colors and equally shaped cube pieces, this cube has mirrors on all its sides but has unequal shapes of cube pieces. When it is scrambled, it will haunt a person with its distorted appearance, urging the person to solve it. Ever since I got my mirror cube, my perception on life has changed dramatically. I have come to realize that my cube reflects my life in a number of different ways. With every little piece of knowledge I acquire, I try to reflect it myself. Whether it is a new skill in programming, a move in badminton, or an equation in Physics, I try to use the knowledge in real life. I am no more than what I reflect to the world around me. My cube has perfect stainless steel mirrors on all sides that reflect the images of everything around it. It can lay unsolved for days but I know that I will solve it soon and when that happens, I will have completely blocked its inner darkness from being exposed to the world. Same way, I want to become completely reflective to the world, so that people around me will see me, and learn from me. Being reflective does not mean that I am hiding my identity. Rather, I am appreciating who I am. That is something I have learnt from solving my mirror cube countless times- a person has two identities, one that they admire every moment of their life, and the other that people around admire about them. I aspire to be visible, to be part of something bigger than myself. I want to truly be a contributing factor in the American society, to make this world a better place.


























































Guilt. That is what I felt when I made the freshmen subs do a six point drill on the court. As their captain this year, I had a different kind of responsibility from previous years. The badminton team has worked like a well oiled machine until now because of the able captains that lead it. This year, the mantle has fallen upon me. For the past three years, I have been the best person on the team. I helped my teammates to learn new forms and moves, but I did so harshly, with force and strictness. However, being a senior as well as the captain now, I realized I cannot use the same techniques as before. After all, a team is only as good as the example the captain portrays. So I changed. Instead of using harsh force to insert﻿Ramansh Sharma                                                                        Date-9/19/18
The author of “Falling Leaves” paints a descriptive and emotional character of the protagonist, Adeline Yen Mah. From the prologue to the third chapter, the author describes how the Yen family became so famous and successful. By giving detailed descriptions of her family members, she reflects the origin of her own values. From the beginning, Yen Mah talks about the disparity between men and women in China. She gives an example to show that when she says, “A wife was often treated as an indentured servant in her husband’s household, especially to her mother in law. If she failed to bear a son, one or more concubines would be brought in. Most men of means routinely visited brothels but a woman who was unfaithful to her husband could be punished by death” (Pg. 8). This example portrays the dominance of men in everyday household decisions and their ownership of their wives. One very shocking example was Yen Mah’s grandmother’s father told her on her wedding day that he would be most proud of her if she subversed herself to the Yen family, bore her husband many sons, catered to all of her husband’s needs and desires, and renounced her own desires for her family’s welfare. The idea of a father saying to a daughter to not be happy for the rest of her life, reveals the objectifying of women in early 1900’s China. Moreover, even extraordinary successful women in this time period, such as Yen Mah’s Grand Aunt, who single-handedly established one of the most thriving banks in the history of China, in a time when women weren’t allowed to make everyday decisions, was called by her grandchildren “Grand Uncle”, a male title. Despite her remarkable achievements, she was inevitable under the shadow of a man. Yen Mah’s portrays herself as a child, who heard these stories, and still hoped to become successful. She gets this inspiration from her Grand Aunt, indicated by describing her as, “I remember Grand Aunt as a tall, imposing figure, treated with great esteem by every member of our family. Even Ye Ye and Father deferred to her every wish, which was remarkable in a society where women were disdained.” (Pg. 8). Her Grand Aunt represents a symbol of hope and success for young Yen Mah, an idol to be worshipped. She also looked up to her grandfather whom she called Ye Ye. To Yen Mah, Ye Ye was a remarkable businessman and a great person. While most men in China went to brothels, Ye Ye was so faithful to his wife, that when his boss offered him a concubine after a huge business profit, he refused, claiming to be a one-woman man, and reported all of this to his wife in writing. Yen Mah also describes Ye Ye as responsible and serious when saying, “Ye ye had a secret. He was prone to seasickness and hated to set foot on board one of his own sampans. So, though his business was profitable, he decided to sell and move up north, leaving his family behind as Aunt Baba and Father both attended local catholic missionary schools which were considered the best in China and he did not wish to disrupt their education”. This shows Yen Mah’s fondness of her grandfather by portraying him as wise and brave to leave family behind for the sake of his children’s education. The author shows herself to be defined by others around her, especially her family. She learns and grows with their wisdom and love. Although great challenges lie ahead of her in her childhood life, she draws the strength she needs from Aunt Baba, Ye Ye, and her grandmother. However, sometimes, the author leaves out emotions from some of her stories. For example, when she first discusses about her mother’s death, instead of letting her audience know the detrimental effect of that event on her childhood, she end the chapter with the following quote, “My mother died two weeks after my birth, with five doctors at her bedside, she was only thirty years old and I have no idea what she looked like. I have never even seen her photograph” (Pg. 24). This quote presents a sheer emotionless report of her mother’s death, which brings up the question of whether she misses her mother too much, or is confused of her feelings. Regardless, this informs the audience of the sensitive topic of the death of the author’s mother. In the first few chapters, Yen Mah portrays herself as a young, unwanted child in her family, who always is the odd one out. Her eldest sister has the trust and favor of her stepmother, her older brothers have each other, her father has her stepmother, and Aunt Baba is busy most of the time with her work. This leaves her with a horrifying childhood to endure especially since her stepmother has a strong distaste for her. Nonetheless, Yen Mah does endure this childhood and goes on to become successful in her life. It would not be wrong to credit a part of that success to the inspirations Yen Mah drew from her Grand Aunt, the tradition defying businesswoman of China, Aunt Baba, who cared for her in her childhood when no one would, and Ye Ye, who taught her to cherish her culture and her core values. So while her family members do accuse her for her mother’s death, she always stands up to them to say no. It would not be wrong to say that she inherited some of her Grand Aunt’s defying characteristics.Ramansh Sharma                        Opinion Editorial                                  Date-3/5/18

It was a regular night doing my homework when the news on New York Times hit me like rock. Nineteen year old Nikolas Cruz, a former student of the Parkland high school, barged in the school building and used a semi automatic AR-15 rifle. Seventeen students died. 
        But there lies beneath a bigger problem. People are growing ignorant of these shootings. For most people, such news is another daily surprise, which after “expressing condolences” through a tweet or two, is forgotten. A New York Times article put it, “Gunfire ringing out in American schools used to be rare, and shocking. Now it seems to happen all the time…..We have absolutely become numb to these kinds of shootings” [1]. Although most people in America claim to be strongly against gun violence, few actually speak out against it. 
        Moreover, another issue is the ease at which a person can legally obtain a firearm in most states. Not only that, a BBC article states, “The right to own guns is regarded by many as enshrined in the Second Amendment to the US Constitution” [2]. In my opinion, it is threatening to the American society. Regular citizens do not need guns for their protection. The only thing regular people might need to carry guns for is to protect themselves against shooters, who in turn again can obtain a gun easily. This could be prevented if the second amendment was not “fiercely defended by groups such as the National Rifle Association” [3]. An organization legally providing guns to people is what gives the shooters motive to wreak havoc. According to the same article, 60% of all American homicides are with guns, which portrays how serious the issue of firearm availability is.
        But there is hope. After the recent Florida high school shooting, numerous adults and children have set out to make a change. According to polls by Huffington Post, 60 percent of Americans currently believe gun violence is a very serious problem facing the country, up from 53 percent last November [4]. In another poll, more than 50 percent of all age groups believe that gun violence can be stopped. The students from the high school even marched up to White House and demanded for stricter gun control laws. These students were the ones to face the tragedy, and realize in truth the depth of this issue. In an interview from CNN of Cameron Kasky, a survivor of the shooting, Kasky said words that truly show what “our generation” wants - We can't ignore the issues of gun control that this tragedy raises. And so, I'm asking--no, demanding--we take action now [5].
        All Americans are part of a shared web, a shared identity. Walt Whitman encapsulated this idea in his Song of Myself when he said, “And what I assume you shall assume. For every atom belonging to me as good belongs to you”. Through this he is trying to convey the idea that everyone in a shared community is the same organism. One big body. One big mind. Therefore, everyone needs to take gun violence seriously because this affect them. In the Boston Massacre, the soldiers opened fire into the public. Even though only a few died, the event became immortal and crucially important to history. In our time, even when scores of people die in a shooting, the news is only….news.
There’s no cowardice or shame in speaking out against gun violence. As Bronx Science students, we do not want any tragedy like this upon us. For that, we all need to make effort and support for stricter gun laws because we decide our own future. And to make the change, we have to be the change. Set an example. Be the city upon a hill.
BIBLIOGRAPHY
1. Blinder, Alan, and Daniel Victor. "School Shooting in Kentucky Was Nation's 11th of Year. It Was Jan. 23." The New York Times. January 23, 2018. Accessed March 06, 2018. 
2. "Guns in the US: The statistics behind the violence." BBC News. January 05, 2016. Accessed March 06, 2018. 
3. Edwards-Levy, Ariel. "Americans Can Still Be Shocked By School Shootings: Poll." The Huffington Post. February 19, 2018. Accessed March 06, 2018. 
4. Kasky, Cameron. "Parkland student: My generation won’t stand for this." CNN. February 20, 2018. Accessed March 06, 2018.






________________
[1] https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/23/us/kentucky-school-shooting.html
[2] http://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-34996604
[3] http://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-34996604
[4]https://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/americans-can-still-be-shocked-by-school-shootings-poll_us_5a8afddae4b004fc319534f9
[5] https://www.cnn.com/2018/02/15/opinions/florida-shooting-no-more-opinion-kasky/index.html﻿Ramansh Sharma                        Book Analysis                                        Date-11/10/18


In the autobiography Falling Leaves, the author, Adeline Yen, gives us a deep look into the life of an unwanted daughter who was shunned by her parents and siblings all her life, but with her sheer determination and the love from her aunt, she achieves her dreams and goes on to become a very successful doctor. Throughout the book, Yen discusses her life as a child living under her tyrannical stepmother Niang. Since all her siblings blame her for their mother’s death, she does not have many people to share her feelings with. When she was young, her grandmother passed away too, leaving Niang in charge of the house, with which power she abused and mistreated the five siblings while over pampering her own children. Towards the end of the book, Yen is now a married adult with two children, working as a professional anesthesiologist. After about thirty one years, she was finally starting to get along with Lydia, her oldest sister, by helping her son out with his education in America. However, when her father dies from alzheimer's disease, and all the children come for the reading of the will, they find out that their father died penniless, “when the young solicitor read out the first page of Father’s will and then announced that there was no money in father’s estate, a collective gasp was audible. We sucked in our breath and looked up at Niang. She calmly glared back at us one by one. Her expression was a combination of triumph and disdain...” (Pg. 236). This was because Niang had taken everything that their father had, his money, his gold, and his properties. As if that wasn’t enough, she ended the recently fixed relationship between Yen and Lydia by manipulating Lydia. This shows in essence the hate that Niang possessed towards all her stepchildren. After two years in her father’s death, Niang gets sick and dies too. When her will is read by James, her favorite stepchild, Yen is astonished to hear that everyone got a share of Niang’s estate except her. Even Lydia, disowned by her parents, received ten percent of Niang’s wealth while Yen, who supported Niang in her surgeries, got nothing. Yen says, “I thought upon my miserable childhood and the abuse Niang had dispensed on those around her. I recalled my elation when I finally escaped from her reign of terror and oppression. And yet it continued to matter to me whether or not she loved me” (Pg 253), to show the deep emotional turmoil she goes under thinking the different possibilities in her head from the first point since meeting Niang to her death that whether or not they departed on good terms, whether she loved her or not. This portrays the longingness of love that Yen has, her trying to fill that void desperately by attempting to amend her terms with her siblings and Niang. It is evident throughout the book that in these attempts, Yen sometimes get misguided. For example, as it turns out, the real reason why Niang suddenly insisted to coming to America to get operated for her cancer after denying Yen’s offer for months, was that if and when she dies in America, the US government would have imposed death duties on Yen’s estate. She is heartbroken from this revelation, further adding on to Niang’s evil portrayal as a hateful being capable of showing no sympathy towards her stepchildren. When Yen and her husband Bob tried to find her father’s will in Niang’s apartment, they found another such heartbreaking revelation. Even when Lydia was disowned by father, she kept a secret conversation with Niang going on, writing to her almost everyday, planting poisonous stories about Yen’s betrayal to Niang when she helped her sister Susan and that Yen was trying to take over control from Niang. To see her own blood and flesh turn on her like that, Yen was shocked and taken aback, wondering whether she is the only one capable of love in her family. This crossroad in Yen’s life depicts her as a compassionate person as she did not sue James in the court even though there was a share that she found her father left for her in his will. Yen says “whatever happens, this, my father’s will, is what is important to me. He at least did not exclude me” (Pg 267) which shows her closure with her turmoil with her parents’ love for her. Upon reading her father’s will, she finally got a last glimpse of one of her most cherished things in the world, her father’s love for her, which she had not seen ever since Niang stepped into their house. One important literary device that occurs throughout the book is the repetition of the phrase, “Suan le!” by James. James says this phrase, meaning “Let it be!”, repeatedly to Yen exclusively throughout the book, sometimes to calm her, other times to calm himself. Its earliest appearance happened when Yen’s pet duckling PLT was killed by Jackie the dog. James consoled Yen to possibly prevent her from taking a harsh action by using this phrase. He uses it again towards the end of the book to try to make Yen drop the case of Niang’s will. Evidently, this use of language proves to effective everytime. Even at the end, when the topic of issue is the matter of inherited wealth, James’s “Suan le!” causes Yen to drop this pursuit as she says, “Sang ge! (Third Elder brother)! It was a great misfortune for us to have had Niang for a stepmother. Don’t worry, I won’t contest her will. I will never allow her to triumph over me.” (Pg 270). In the last chapter of the book, Yen visits her aunt Baba, a very influential and important person in her life, especially in her childhood. When Yen offered aunt Baba to come to America for treatment for her colon cancer, she nonchalantly denied saying “I have had a good run of eighty-nine years. It is time to accept the end. Since there is no hope of a cure, why prolong the agony of dying?” (Pg 272). Hearing this, Yen had a feeling of untethered weightlessness. She understood the deeper meaning of aunt Baba’s decision, that there is no point in pondering over past events, over things that an individual cannot do anything about anymore. A person should be able to live free and clear of any tensions. Yen had been living in fear of Niang and longing of acceptance from her all her life. But after remembering the story aunt Baba used to tell her as a child, she finally found peace with her past. The author uses pathos heavily in the text to reach and connect with the audience on the human level. Although her stories are naturally sad and very unfortunate, her use of word choice and juxtaposition of continuous unfortunate events gives her main idea an emotional depth. By employing this technique, Yen is able to give the readers a sense of what things looked like from her perspective in the specific times. I plan to use this technique in my fiction writing later this year as it proves to be very effective to carry the main idea to the reader in the literal as well as the emotional aspect. I personally enjoyed this book very much. Reading and learning about Yen’s life in China and then her dedicated journey to America and to becoming a doctor is very inspiring and relatable. Since I myself have come from India here, I know firsthand the difficulties an immigrant might face socially here. But just like Yen proves through her story, with determination comes success.Ramansh Sharma                        Podcast reflection                                 Date-10/17/18

New York’s Got Talent: Episode 8 - Matthew Silver & Paperboy the Prince
Notes:
Awkward men saying they have pretty eyes, they like gameboys, and they wear khaki pants. They don't like playing gameboy in public cuz its weird and dangerous in public. Gater pants, someone thought it was snake, it's a shout out to amphibians (reptiles). People give them negative look but they are beautiful creatures. A talent show hosted sometime before. The people are street performers. “How would you describe your performance”- the collaboration was good, perform with music, it was nice. Paperboy is a rapper, motivator, basketball player, music creator, nice person. One guy calls himself a fartist. They act like cartoon characters. Fidget spinners. Matrix.


This podcast made by a group of friends who are street artists and performers, was especially interesting to me. Since I had a bad perception of podcasts as a form of literature/art previously, I was trying to pick the best podcast I could listen to. As unimaginable as I thought it would be, I could not pick a podcast. There were just too many options and a large variety. So I took a suggestion from my friend and listened to this podcast from Matthew Silver. This podcast was unlike all the ones I have heard until now. All the podcast I heard until now were about tragic and sad events - parent’s death, car/truck accidents, losing someone close to oneself. As a result, I wanted to shift to science fiction, something I could relate to. But I ended up listening to this podcast, and I enjoyed it to the fullest. Unlike others, one thing I really liked about the speakers in this podcast was that they were not telling one story that was sad and was supposed to have a deep meaningful closing at the end. Rather, these street artists, singers, and dancers, are just talking about old days, sharing small stories from small events. The focused attention on one small moment allowed me to relate to the speakers in the humor side. It was extremely enjoyable, for example, one speaker talks about how he made a small video about playing with a fidget spinner on the street and throw it on the ground, for which he got millions of views. Not only is this story silly and funny, the speaker add a level of casual twist to it by using curse words. Even though it sounds inappropriate and unprofessional sometimes, it does add to the humor, which is a really important component for me to look for in podcasts. Another funny example I remember is when one speaker compliments on the other speaker's khaki pants. The pants had alligators drawn on them. When inquired, the person wearing them explains them to be some kind of reptiles, and how wearing the pants is a shoutout to all the amphibians. Another speaker joins in and says that amphibians and reptiles are misunderstood creatures mostly taken for their jagged scaled and ugly looks, but how they are sincere and nice creatures. This interaction made me laugh. I believe this to be the sign for me that I like the podcast. I am not a natural auditory learner. Podcasts are a new thing to me. As a matter of fact, I am listening to the podcast right now along with writing about it so I do not forget the content later on. Just now, one of the speaker says how not to be discouraged ever in one’s life. Because that is what the machine or the matrix wants you to be like, for you to be soulless. Another speaker just made a joke about how life keeps throwing sh*t at your face and makes it suck for you, but it is just cliché. People sometimes do fake depressing (at Bronx Science also) because they want to relate to people around them. It is also easier to be depressed rather than be inspiring to others. After saying something serious like that, the speakers take the factor down a little and talk about bad singing and demonstrate with weird sounds from their throats. The speakers literally are not trying to convey one story. They are not trying to solve the mysteries of the universe and human behaviour. They are just talking about human beings, being human beings, strengths and weaknesses (kryptonite). I believe that is the greatest strength of this podcast - humor combined with deep messages. If they only talked about their art conventions, or their practices and interactions on the street, I would really bored, really fast. But the jokes and the casual mood kept me hanging in there. I do not like art, but I do like people relating art to daily problems and cliché ideas in America. For example, the speakers talked about how hard it to be a street artist and live in New York, to which then the other artist responded that he should try what he does for some extra money - use an online paypal account from which he gets donations up to $150 for doing small funny video gigs.  Further on, I plan to use the same techniques in my fictional creative writing later on this year. Since it will definitely be related to science and physics, the humor will keep the audience tagged into my stories, while I casually convey my story, in a fun and meaningful way.﻿Ramansh Sharma                Return to the Scene of the Crime                         Date-10/14/18
                                        Podcast homework
The “Return to the Scene of the Crime” podcast was very interesting and engaging in a unique way. This podcast, being the first one I have ever listened to, left a long lasting impression on me. To me, it was like a classic play. Starting with a prologue, having three “acts” in it, it was extremely enjoyable. Of the four parts the podcast had, my favorite one was Act 2- “D-u-why?!” by Mike Birbiglia. It was interesting to me because of the unusual yet intriguing plot. Mike happened to be in a car accident when his car collided with a drunk man’s car. The plot had small special moments that made the audience laugh and take such an unfortunate event in an amusing way. I believe this to be a very prominent feature of podcasts. They put a fun and casual twist to taboo and mostly sad events. Whether it be about a teenage girl shoplifting and being punished by holding a sign saying she shoplifted in front of the store, a dangerous car accident for which the victim paid $12,000 to compensate for the other man’s car even when it was not his fault, or a young man’s story about coming out to his mother who was the only one to support him, but unfortunately dies very soon. Maybe it was because we were not seeing the tears in the eyes of the speakers, it was like reading a book, only with more guidance towards as to what the emotions are supposed to be associated with a certain event in the story. In Act 2, Mike recalls the police officer who helped him up, asking him to sign a piece of paper that said that Mike was fine, so that the police can leave. When Mike insisted that he needed medical attention and that he was not fine, the officer forced him to sign in by pushing the paper on his face. Later on, Mike was asked by the car insurance company of the other person in the accident, to compensate for the damage he did to the car. Since Mike was the victim, not the culprit in the accident, he asked to see the police report to understand why this misconception was occurring, and was surprised to find that the officer did a lousy job making the report, which confused him and the other person interchangeably, causing the report to make Mike seem at fault. Even his efforts to reason with the police department captain were in vain, as the captain kept insisting to Mike that, “he do the right thing”. Infuriated, Mike began preparing legal measures, PI’s, and lawyers, to sue the police department and the other guy in the accident to get justice. Eventually, his girlfriend asked him to let go and be thankful that he is still alive, which changed his heart and he paid the sum of money to the insurance company. All this, Mike talked in such a casual way that this accident seemed like a jolly life learning lesson whereas he, first hand experienced a great amount of anger from it. Realizing this, and still enjoying the act, it really moved me to see the power of a podcast, to be able to turn this sad event into a happy one. It’s as if people like to talk about these taboo and cliché things in front of an audience. I still do not know if they have to prepare their speech beforehand to be so influential and enjoyable, but nonetheless, they speak magic. The theme of this podcast was “Returning to the Scene of the Crime” which was captured by the prologue along with all the acts. The prologue was an interesting piece too. A judge in a small town in the South, sends shoplifters to hold a sign saying they shoplifted in front of the very store they did it from. While greatly humiliating and a topic of human rights, the creators gave an amusing twist to this piece too. The speaker talked about a mother whose son was holding the sign, and was having fun doing it. He was laughing and posing with the sign in front of his relatives taking pictures, who were also laughing. So in conclusion, these events, all tragic and pessimistic at first, are portrayed as a positive and fun thing. Maybe, it is another feature of podcasts, to look at the bright side of such things.Ramansh Sharma                              Setting Review                                Date-9/28/18

The author of “Falling Leaves”, Adeline Yen Mah, makes use of sensory details and descriptions of her siblings and family members to show her emotions for them. For example, when Adeline says, “I remember him, full of mischief gazing with rapt fascination… to escape.” (Pg. 35), she uses the one moment in which her eldest brother Gregory, supposedly the most favored one of her parents and grandparents, pulls a trick on their grandfather by pulling his nose hair while he was asleep. This incident portrays her disapproval of Gregory, caused also partly by the fact that he would preclude her when playing with their siblings. She uses juxtaposition to compare Gregory’s elderness to his siblings and being childish and mischievous at the same time. Yet, at the same time, Adeline shows deep appreciation for Gregory. She compliments him by saying, “Good with numbers, he occasionally taught us younger ones neat mathematical tricks, roaring with laughter at his own cleverness” (Pg. 35). This conveys the message to the reader that Adeline does not believe Gregory to be full of himself because of him being elder to others, but rather that the duties of their father were unconditionally passed to a young and happy boy. Adeline also appraises Gregory after her grandmother’s demise when saying, “Every few steps, he would fall on his knees and start bewailing the loss of Grandmother at the top of his voice, banging his head repeatedly on the ground to make obeisance… marvelling at his performance.” (Pg. 40). Here, she ensues physical setting of the monks, incense smell, prayer, to place the gloomy mood in which Gregory bravely takes on his father’s duties to mourn for their grandmother by doing the ritual with utmost emotion. Her grandmother’s death traumatized her so much that she even “half hoped and half feared that her grandmother would come out of her coffin during the night and rejoin them in their life”. She was undoubtedly going through an enormous flux of emotions, which she cleverly never states, but shows through using descriptive physical setting and sensory details of her grandmother’s funeral process and juxtaposition about her perceptions of her brother.
        Adeline also recalls the joys of living under her grandmother’s reign in the house. As the eldest one, she refused to join their father’s offer to live in Shanghai due to security reasons, and continued to live in their Tianjin house because to her, “the essence of life was not which city one lived in, but with whom one lived”. Adeline uses intensive sensory details to describe traditional delectable foods that they would eat everyday and their lavish lifestyles, compared to the plain and unnerving life under Niang’s rule in the house. She describes it as serene while saying, “Aunt Baba ran the household and encouraged us children to invite friends home to play and snack on various dim sims in a way Niang would never have tolerated. Mealtimes were informal and the adults talked and played mah-jong late into the evening. Ye Ye kept a skeleton staff in the office….A chauffeur was hired and on Sundays we were driven to various restaurants to try out different cuisines, including Russian, French, and German. I remember drinking hot  chocolate and eating pastries at the sparkling Kiessling Restaurant while a music trio played Strauss waltzes and Beethoven romances. Sometimes we were even taken to see suitable movies.” (Pg. 38). Adeline describes this period of time as heaven. With being allowed to eat all and any amount of her favorite foods that her stepmother would be furious to see, getting to play with her friends at home, not dealing with formal dinners, going to fancy restaurants in which music played while she ate food, and going for movies, Adeline “shows” the serenity of this time. I really liked how she just didn’t list these luxuries after saying her life was serene. That would have drawn out the emotion and the sensory details out of the story. Rather, she took time and effort to go into brief but intense details of each feature of this golden life, essentially bringing the reader into the story to feel how she felt. Moreover, the fact that these things would make Niang excruciatingly furious, made Adeline feel rebellious and as a winner for once. This technique of “showing” and not just “telling”, I think I can use for my essays too. I can effectively show how my teammates and I were going through increasingly more and more confusion and nervousness, as the time for the hackathon to end came to a close and we still did not have a solution. And then how it just hit me like a spark, I can use similes and metaphors here along with describing the scene with intense details, will definitely catch the emotion in the picture. For my essay about my transformative moment at the top of the Grand Canyon, gazing down four thousand feet through a four inch helicopter window, I could use physical setting to describe how much that one single moment meant to me. For it was extremely horrifying, yet so adventurous that my childhood memories came flushing back to me of how I used to climb up trees and park poles. Just how Adeline uses sensory details to describe her relatives, her grandmother’s funeral, and her golden heavenly times when her father and stepmother went to Shanghai while the rest of the family stayed and enjoyed their lives to the fullest in Tianjin, I can employ the same level of physical setting and sensory details to make my essays better by not only saying certain things, but “showing” them with emotion.﻿I have been on the varsity Badminton team since freshman year. I am currently the captain and the lead player of the team. My position has steadily increased- Singles 3 as freshman, Singles 2 as sophomore, and Singles 1 as junior and senior. Since freshman year, it has been my dream to see my team become City champions. I am confident we will be able to make this a reality this season. This is because I have seen the strength and determination of my teammates, their shared ambition to win the championship. Our team's strength is evident by the 10-0 streak we have this season. In the playoffs, we hope to advance well and finally win the championships. Every one of my teammates possesses compassion and eagerness to learn. That is the kind of team I want to be in, it is the reason this is my dream team.﻿With a packet of pretzels in my left hand and my phone in my right hand, I sat hopelessly at a table with four seniors. Five laptops, five brilliant minds, the internet at our fingertips, and we had nothing. It was five in the evening and we were facing a seemingly impossible dilemma.
My hackathon teammates were taking advanced Game Programming while I was just a shy freshmen with minimal knowledge of web design. Our project was truly exceptional: a piano tiles game with integrated hand motions that were detected by a motion sensor armband. The first part came easy, the seniors wrote the code for the basic piano tiles game by noon. But then came the time to implement the hand motions into our game. No one on our team had the slightest idea on how to position them at regular intervals in the game. 
We could hear the joyous laughs and roars of other teams as they triumphantly showed their projects to the supervisors. All this happened while we sat there like statues. With crumbs of pretzels and spills of Gatorade all over us, we waited for a miracle to snap us out of our slumber. The hackathon was nearing its end and without the hand motions, our game would be demoted from something unique and fascinating to a something, well, nothing. My team had little hope left of deciphering this riddle of the Sphinx. However, I was not ready to give up. The hackathon was a haven for me. A place where I was surrounded by people with similar interests, friends who shared my passion and enthusiasm. I cherished this community more than anything. Then, the solution struck me like Zeus’s lightning bolt. 
I did not believe myself at first. There is no way I could have solved something the seniors could not. I explained my solution to Aki, our team leader. When I finished writing the long equation, his eyes lay wide open. Immediately he was thanking me for the solution. He hurried back to the others, dragged them to the whiteboard and let them too, marvel at the solution. The four seniors, in semicircle, turned towards me and congratulated me for the accomplishment. The coders immediately jumped into implementation, with only twenty minutes remaining. I felt content, having contributed meaningfully to the team. 
It took them about ten minutes to write the ten lines of code that made our project enchanted with sweet gaming wizardry. To my surprise, the team quoted me as the key player in the “how did you do it” section of submitting the game. This was the first time I was given the leading credit in a team project. Not only did it make me feel important, but it inspired confidence inside me. 
As the three fates deemed it so, we gave a breathtaking presentation of the game. Aki scored an incredibly high score in the game, bewildering the whole auditorium. The judges and the audience were perplexed by our performance. The presentation ended, and after two seconds of silence, the judges stood up and gave us a standing ovation, followed by the rest of the audience. 
 It is often said in Greek mythology that mortal belief in the gods is what keeps them immortal. On this day, our team’s spirit was immortalized by the belief and praise of the audience. Our team placed first in the hackathon. I learned something about teamwork that day. I learned that I do not always have to be the leader or the best guy in a team to be a contributing teammate. What I needed was fierce curiosity and unmatched perseverance, which this day embedded deep into my lifestyle.Ramansh Sharma                   How to Tell a True War Story                    Date-10/4/18

In “How to Tell a True War Story”, the author Tim O'Brien uses multiple techniques and literary devices to communicate a non-fiction story. However, many parts of his stories are known to be fiction, with vague details and a blurred line between reality and fantasy. When O’Brien says “A true war story is never moral. It does not instruct, nor encourage virtue, nor suggest models of proper human behavior, nor restrain men from doing the things they have always done….There is no virtue. As a first rule of thumb, therefore, you can tell a true war story by its absolute and uncompromising allegiance to obscenity and evil.”, he paints a gloomy picture of the setting in his book, alerting the readers that the dark stories he is about to narrate, are not made up for the purpose of portraying war, but rather to correctly depict it. O’Brien also asserts about the philosophy of a war story when saying, “In many cases a true war story cannot be believed. If you believe it, be skeptical. It’s a question of credibility. Often the crazy stuff is true and the normal stuff isn’t because the normal stuff is necessary to make you believe the truly incredible craziness.” Here, O’Brien is saying that even though the entire story he narrates is true, some more believable untrue parts were added, to make the whole thing seem believable. In this process, he blurs the line between what is fiction and what is not in his book. O’Brien believes war to be one of the few themes which cannot be communicated across normally. One has to manipulate the details, insert emotion and suspense in order to keep the story engaging, otherwise, the story would just be meaningless to tell. O’Brien uses a lot of ambiguity in his book which causes the true parts and the false parts to merge together in a clutter. This ambiguity might come in hand in the personal statement work. I could use it in some sort anecdotes, where if properly used, it will compel the reader to think two or three layers deeper to understand the bigger picture and significance of the story. O’Brien also says, “True war stories do not generalize. They do not indulge in abstraction or analysis” to convey that he is purposely throwing random and miniscule details at the reader to mimic a proper war story. Instead of the author doing all the analysis and reasoning, the readers are expected to put the pieces together in their own way and learn their own moral from the story. Whether the story that O’Brien narrates is true or not, does not matter more than what it teaches. War stories are indeed very difficult to tell. Too much or too little details or events can make the story too vague and meaningless. Therefore, it does not matter if the stories that O’Brien tells are true or not, the lessons are learnt either way.﻿Ramansh Sharma                        Physics Rave Assignment                          Date-3/7/18
To Whom it May Concern:
I am writing to recommend Ramansh Sharma for the class of 2023. I have known Ramansh for the past year as he was one of the top students in my AP Physics 1 class here at Bronx Science. 
Words that could describe Ramansh are passionate, creative and imaginative. In my physics class Ramansh is usually very good at understanding a given concept. Once in class we were learning the topic of rotational inertia and momentum. I noticed that he picked up on the concepts very quickly and even solved the problem I gave the class the fastest in his group. But when he noticed another student on his table struggling to understand the equations, he explained it using more detailed examples. This unlikely mentor pairing resulted in Ramansh not only understanding the concepts himself but also help a fellow student to do the same. It also showed that Ramansh is friendly while being very bright. One of the things that impressed me about Ramansh is the way he is always looking for interesting topics to explore that interest him. One time we were learning the energy and work unit. That day, although we were discussing the conservation of energy, he came up to me in break and asked why some planets revolve clockwise while some counterclockwise? He likes to think outside the scope. Some students with Ramansh’s intelligence can come across as arrogant but Ramansh is really modest and really cares about his fellow students. I remember one time when his friend in the class receive a low grade on a test and I overheard Ramansh saying that one test is not the big picture and it is more important to correct the mistakes, not make them again, and focus on the next test. But Ramansh is not only this nice to his friends, he is thoughtful and kind in all the interactions I have witnessed in lab and he seems to be respectful to his friends and the lab teacher just as he is in our daily class.
 Ramansh is also interested in competitive exams outside class. Specifically, he worked very hard for the F=ma contest that is designed to be of harder difficulty level than even Post-AP Physics classes. Even then, he was determined to perform well on the test. I remember him coming to my office after school and asking me a specific question from one of the practice tests. From our conversation I came to know that he had very deep insights on how systems will work if he does not completely understand the question and quite often they are correct. Moreover, he had completed numerous practice tests which really portrayed his determination and will to achieve a good score. He works very hard in my class and is always attentive. Unsurprisingly, Ramansh has never missed a single homework in my class.
In summary, Ramansh will make a great addition to your Freshman class in September. His combination of brains, creativity and will, plus his warm personality will make him a great member of your community. I recommend him strongly for admission.     


Sincerely,
Neil Farley
Teacher of Physics, Astronomy, and EngineeringRamansh Sharma                           The Cathedral                                      Date-12/6/16

In the short story, The Cathedral, the author Raymond Carver, uses imagery to illustrate the new behaviour of Bub as a result from Robert, who was a blind man being in his house. Bub was asked by Robert to explain several things to him, and Bub had to use descriptive words to explain which he was not used to. He realized that he could not just wink or nod at Robert. Instead he had to have an active conversation to talk to Robert normally. Bub’s wife who is an old friend of Robert knew exactly how to talk to direct an old blind man. When Robert arrives to their home, she directs him to the living room saying, “To your left here, Robert. That’s right. Now watch it, there’s a chair. That’s it. Sit down right here. This is the sofa. We just bought this sofa two weeks ago.”(4)This quote from her shows that she is used to using sentences that would describe the physical location and the description of objects. But Bub, who never had a situation like this, had negative feelings about blind people. He found the idea of being blind very upset and weird, which he admitted was based on whatever he saw about blind people in movies. He was indeed bad at explaining what he saw in terms of words to a blind person. When Robert asked him, whether he was religious, Bub just shook his head and instantly realized that Robert can’t see it. Then he replied a ‘no’ and gave the reason. Bub tries his best when he tries to describe cathedrals using words to Robert. He started off describing it with random descriptions, ““To begin with, they’re very tall...They reach way up. Up and up. Toward the sky. They’re so big, some of them, they have to have these supports. To help hold them up, so to speak. These supports are called buttresses. They remind of viaducts, for some reason. But maybe you don’t know viaducts, either? Sometimes the cathedrals have devils and such carved into the front. Sometimes lords and ladies. Don’t ask me why this is,”(11) This description form bub shows that he has no experience describing physical objects completely through words. Bub gives descriptions like ‘tall’, ‘up and up’, ‘big’. But he doesn’t give any basis of which might Robert compare that size to. He also confuses him by saying sometimes devils, and sometimes lords. This would mix up the picture developing in Robert’s head, but Bub had no idea of this. Therefore the author tries to use imagery to show what a hard thing it is to describe vivid physical objects to a blind man.﻿Ramansh Sharma                        Independent Reading                         Date-10/29/18
Notes: “This was my introduction to an american stranger, kinder than my own parents” pg 156. “Well you are truly on your own now” pg 156. Adeline meets Byron who she finds handsome and is interesting in eating his prepared noodles. Byron shows interest in adeline from day 1 and wants “to have her all to himself for once”. The next day itself, he was teary eyed and confessed love to Adeline. At the end of the page, he wants her to be his wife. She married a guy she spent less than 10 hrs with. He turned out to be a waiter and a lier. Then they went to south california and adeline started an internship and he got an engineer job.
The tone of the author in this part of the book is a flux between happiness and sadness. Adeline is overjoyed with finally realizing her dreams of emigrating to America. When she finds a job in Philadelphia, she was worried that she would not be able to pay for the airline ticket. However, she portrayed this worry as a worthy problem to be tackled by her to achieve her goals. And indeed, the hospital program congratulated her on her position and agreed to deduct monthly installments of the airline ticket’s money from her future paychecks. Adeline received even more joy when the very day after she arrived in New York, she falls in love with the roomate of her roomate, Byron, who in turn is so in love with her, that he becomes teary eyed, and declares that they will be married before the end of the year. Indeed, she married him within six weeks, realizing that she has not even spent more than ten hours with Byron. Alas, Adeline portrays this as an exaggeration as the happiest moment in her life, when all that has been done bad to her all her life, is being repented from the love she is receiving from her newly wedded husband. The readers can see repetition of the daily routine of the couple- waking up, reading Los Angeles Time / The New York Times, eating dinner in silence, both of them reading their books of interest, and Byron watching TV uncontrollably. When her father said, “Well, you are truly on your own now” (Pg. 156), he foreshadowed upon this kind of happening. Byron was not actually an engineer, but a waiter at a restaurant. When Adeline tried to confront him about this reality, the two had an intense marital spat in a filled movie theater. Later on, Adeline paints the picture of their daily routine around the house after the two became increasingly separated from each other, “husband and wife should respect each other like honored guests” (Pg. 163), as Byron wanted them to be. She describes how Byron once almost brought the whole house down with his anger for their marital problems turning into a violent physical rampage that of an animal. This brings us back to how her father hinted on this happening when he said that Adeline is on her own now. He clearly meant to say that she no longer had any parents to come to, let alone parents that cared for her in any way. With her departure from China to emigrate to America, her father and stepmother had essentially broken all ties with her, for her decision to pursue medicine in America, her independence as a woman, was repulsive and defeating to her parents. Although her parents sent her a considerable sum of money as her wedding gift, it might have been a sign of complete break up of ties. The gift might be interpreted as her parents’ way of saying that, “here, take this money and leave us be. We want nothing to do with you”. In conclusion, although Adeline portrays her initial time in the United States as overly enjoyable and filled with happiness, she soon brings it down with the sad reality of her husband being a repressive liar. She is tying these events to the similarity in the beginning of the book.