Ramansh Sharma                        Physics Rave Assignment                          Date-3/7/18
To Whom it May Concern:
I am writing to recommend Ramansh Sharma for the class of 2023. I have known Ramansh for the past year as he was one of the top students in my AP Physics 1 class here at Bronx Science. 
Words that could describe Ramansh are passionate, creative and imaginative. In my physics class Ramansh is usually very good at understanding a given concept. Once in class we were learning the topic of rotational inertia and momentum. I noticed that he picked up on the concepts very quickly and even solved the problem I gave the class the fastest in his group. But when he noticed another student on his table struggling to understand the equations, he explained it using more detailed examples. This unlikely mentor pairing resulted in Ramansh not only understanding the concepts himself but also help a fellow student to do the same. It also showed that Ramansh is friendly while being very bright. One of the things that impressed me about Ramansh is the way he is always looking for interesting topics to explore that interest him. One time we were learning the energy and work unit. That day, although we were discussing the conservation of energy, he came up to me in break and asked why some planets revolve clockwise while some counterclockwise? He likes to think outside the scope. Some students with Ramansh’s intelligence can come across as arrogant but Ramansh is really modest and really cares about his fellow students. I remember one time when his friend in the class receive a low grade on a test and I overheard Ramansh saying that one test is not the big picture and it is more important to correct the mistakes, not make them again, and focus on the next test. But Ramansh is not only this nice to his friends, he is thoughtful and kind in all the interactions I have witnessed in lab and he seems to be respectful to his friends and the lab teacher just as he is in our daily class.
 Ramansh is also interested in competitive exams outside class. Specifically, he worked very hard for the F=ma contest that is designed to be of harder difficulty level than even Post-AP Physics classes. Even then, he was determined to perform well on the test. I remember him coming to my office after school and asking me a specific question from one of the practice tests. From our conversation I came to know that he had very deep insights on how systems will work if he does not completely understand the question and quite often they are correct. Moreover, he had completed numerous practice tests which really portrayed his determination and will to achieve a good score. He works very hard in my class and is always attentive. Unsurprisingly, Ramansh has never missed a single homework in my class.
In summary, Ramansh will make a great addition to your Freshman class in September. His combination of brains, creativity and will, plus his warm personality will make him a great member of your community. I recommend him strongly for admission.     


Sincerely,
Neil Farley
Teacher of Physics, Astronomy, and Engineering